 
 
 
Bureau of Experts at the Council of Ministers  
Official Translation Department 
 
 
 
 
 
Labor Law 
  
Royal Decree No. M/51 
September 27, 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translation of Saudi Laws 
  

 
 
NOTES: 
1. This translation is provided for guidance. The governing text is the Arabic text. 
2. The translation of Saudi laws takes the following into consideration: 
 Words used in the singular form include the plural and vice versa.  
 Words used in the masculine form include the feminine.  
 Words used in the present tense include the present as well as the future.  
 The word “person” or “persons” and their related pronoun s (he, his, him, they, their, them, and who) 
refer to a natural and legal person. 
3. Amendments to this Law are provided in the Appendix. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any comments or inquiries, please contact the Official Translation Department at: 
otd@boe.gov.sa
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 1 
Labor Law 
Part 1: Definitions and General Provisions 
Chapter 1: Definitions 
Article 1  
This law shall be called the Labor Law. 
Article 2 
In this Law, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires 
otherwise: 
Ministry: Ministry of Labor. 
Minister: Minister of Labor. 
Labor Office: The administrative authority assuming jurisdiction over the labor affairs within an 
area specified by a decision of the Minister. 
Employer: Any natural or corporate person employing one or more workers for a wage. 
Worker: Any natural person working for an employer and under his management or supervision for 
a wage, even if he is not under his direct control. 
Minor: Any person of 15 and below 18 years of age. 
Work: The effort exerted in all human activities in execution of a (written or unwritten) employment 
contract regardless of their nature or kind, be they industrial, commercial, agricultural, technical, o r 
otherwise, whether physical or mental. 
Original Work: For individuals: Their usual business activities. For establishments: The activities 
for which the establishment was established as stated in its articles of incorporation, franchise contract 
– if a franchise company, or Commercial Register. 
Temporary Work: Work considered by its nature to be part of the employer’s activities, the 
completion of which requires a specific period or relates to a specific job and ends with its completion. 
It shall not exceed 90 days in either case. 
Incidental Work: Work that is not considered by its nature to be part of the usual activities of an 
employer, and its execution does not require more than 90 days. 
Seasonal Work: Work that takes place during known periodical seasons. 
Part-Time Work: Work performed by a part-time worker for an employer and for less than half the 
usual daily working hours at the establishment, whether such a worker works on a daily basis or on 
certain days of the week. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 2 
Continuous Service: The uninte rrupted service of a worker for the same employer or his legal 
successor from the starting date of service. Service shall be deemed continuous in the following cases: 
1. Official holidays and vacations. 
2. Interruptions for sitting for examinations in accordance with the provisions of this Law. 
3. Worker’s unpaid absences from work for intermittent periods not exceeding 20 days per work 
year. 
Basic Wage: All that is given to a worker for his work by virtue of a written or unwritten employment 
contract regardless of the kind of wage or its method of payment, in addition to periodic increments. 
Actual Wage: The basic wage plus all other due increments decided for a worker for the effort he 
exerts at work or for risks he encounters in the course of performing his work, or those decided for 
the worker for the work under the employment contract or work organization regulation. This 
includes: 
1. The commission or percentage from sales or profits paid against what the worker markets, 
produces, collects, or realizes from increased or enhanced production. 
2. Allowances the worker is entitled to for exerted effort or risks he encounters while performing his 
job. 
3. Increments that may be granted in accordance with the standard of living or to meet family 
expenses. 
4. Grants or rewards: What the employer grants to a worker and what is paid to him for honesty or 
efficiency and the like, if such grant or reward is stipulated in the employment contract or the work 
organization regulation of the establishment, or if it is customarily grante d to the extent that 
workers consider it part of the wage rather than a donation. 
5. In rem privileges: What the employer commits himself to provide to the worker for his work by 
stating the same in the employment contract or the work organization regulation, and it is estimated 
at a maximum of two-month basic wage per annum, unless it is otherwise estimated to exceed that 
in the employment contract or the work organization regulation. 
Wage: actual wage. 
establishment: Any enterprise run by a natural or corporate person which employs one or more 
workers for a wage of any kind. 
Month: 30 days, unless otherwise specified in the employment contract or the work organization 
regulation. 
Regulations: The Implementing Regulations of this Law. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 3 
Chapter 2: General Provisions 
Article 3 
Work is the right of every citizen. No one else may exercise such right unless the conditions provided 
for in this Law are fulfilled. All citizens are equal in the right to work. 
Article 4  
When implementing the provisions of this Law, employers and workers shall adhere to the provisions 
of Sharia. 
Article 5 
The provisions of this Law shall apply to: 
1. Any contract whereby a person commits himself to work for an employer and under his 
management or supervision for a wage. 
2. Workers of the government and public organizations and institutions including those who work in 
pastures or agriculture. 
3. Workers of charitable institutions. 
4. Workers of agricultural and pastoral establishments that employ ten or more workers. 
5. Workers of agricultural establishments that process their own products. 
6. Workers who operate or repair agricultural machineries on a permanent basis. 
7. Qualification and training contracts with workers other than those working for the employer within 
the limits of the special provisions provided for in this Law. 
8. Part-time workers with respect to safety, occupational health and work injuries, as well as what is 
decided by the Minister. 
Article 6  
Incidental, seasonal, and temporary workers shall be subject to the provisions on duties and 
disciplinary rules, the maximum working hours, daily and weekly rest intervals, overtime work, 
official holidays, safety rules, occupational health, and work injuries and compensation therefore as 
well as whatever is decided by the Minister. 
Article 7 
The following shall be exempted from the implementation of the provisions of this Law:  
1. The employer's family members, namely, the spouse, the ascendants and descendants who 
constitute the only workers of the establishment. 
2. Domestic helpers and the like. 
3. Sea workers working on board of vessels with a load of less than five hundred tons. 
4. Agricultural workers other than the categories stated in Article 5 of this Law. 
5. Non-Saudi workers entering the Kingdom to perform a specific task for a period not exceeding 
two months. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 4 
6. Players and coaches of sports clubs and federations. 
The Ministry shall, in coordination with the competent authorities, draft regulations for domestic 
helpers and the like to govern their relations with their employers and specify the rights and duties of 
each party and submit the same to the Council of Ministers. 
Article 8  
Any condition that conflicts with the provisions of this Law shall be deemed null and void. The same 
applies to any release or settlement of the worker’s rights arising from this Law during the validity 
of the employment contract, unless the same is more beneficial to the worker. 
Article 9  
Arabic shall be the language used for information, records, files, employment contracts, and the like 
as provided for in this Law or in any decision issued in implementation of its provisions as well as 
the instructions issued by the employer to his workers. 
If the employer uses a foreign language besides Arabic in any of the aforementioned cases, the Arabic 
text shall prevail. 
Article 10  
All periods and schedules provided for in this Law shall be according to the Hijri calendar, unless 
otherwise stated in the employment contract or the work organization regulation. 
Article 11 
1. If the employer assigns all or part of his original business  to a natural or corporate person, the 
latter shall give his workers all the rights and privileges which the original employer gives to his 
workers, and both of them shall be jointly and severally liable. 
2. In case of multiple employers, all of them shall be jointly and severally responsible for the 
fulfillment of the obligations arising from this Law and the employment contracts.  
Article 12 
Both the employer and the worker shall be familiar with the provisi ons of the Labor Law in all its 
contents so that each of them shall be aware of his position and of his rights and duties. Any employer 
who employs ten or more workers shall submit to the Ministry, a work organization regulation 
including internal work provisions, within a year of the effective date of this Law or from the date of 
reaching the quota. Such regulations shall include the work organization rules and all related 
provisions including the provisions related to privileges, violations and disciplina ry penalties, not 
contradicting the provisions of this Law. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 5 
Article 13 
The Ministry shall approve the work organization regulation and all amendments to it within 60 days 
from the date of its submission to the Ministry. 
If such period elapses without approval or objection, the regulation shall be considered effective as 
of the end of such period. 
The employer shall announce the regulation by displaying it in a prominent location in the 
establishment or by any other means that ensures the workers’ awareness thereof. 
Article 14  
A model, or models, for work organization regulation shall be issued pursuant to a decision by the 
Minister for the guidance of employers. 
Article 15  
An employer shall, upon commencement of work in any establishment, notify the competent labor 
office in writing of the following information: 
1. Name, type, and headquarters of the establishment, as well as its mailing address and any 
information that facilitates contact therewith. 
2. Line of business for which it is licensed, providing the number of the Commercial Register or the 
license, its date, and issuing authority, together with a copy thereof. 
3. Number of workers to be employed in the establishment. 
4. Name of the establishment’s manager in-charge. 
5. Any other information required by the Ministry. 
Article 16  
1. If the employer is unable to run the business in person, he shall designate a representative at the 
workplace. In case of multiple partners or managers in the establishment, one of them, from among 
those residing at the place of work, shall be nominated to represent the employer and be liable for 
any violation of the provisions of this Law. 
2. The employer shall notify the competent labor office in writing of the name of the partner or 
manager, and, in case he is replaced, he shall notify the labor office of the name of the new partner 
or manager within seven days at most of the date the latter assumes the job. 
3. In case no manager is appointed to be in charge of the establishment, or if the appointed manager 
does not assume his duties, the n the person who actually runs the establishment or the employer 
himself shall be considered the manager in charge of the establishment.  
In all cases, the employer is ultimately liable. 
Article 17  
An employer shall maintain at the workplace the records, statements, and files the nature and contents 
of which shall be specified in the Regulations. 
He shall display at a visible location at the workplace a schedule of working hours, breaks, weekly 
rest days, and the time each shift starts and ends, when operating in shifts. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 6 
Article 18  
If the ownership of an establishment is transferred to a new owner or a change takes place in its legal 
form through merger, partition, or otherwise, employment contracts shall remain in force in both 
cases and service shall be deemed continuous.  
As for workers’ rights accrued for the period prior to the change, such as wages or unrealized end -
of-service awards on the date of the transfer of ownership and other rights, the predecessor and the 
successor shall be jointly and severally liable. However, in the case of transfer of ownership of sole 
proprietorships, for any reason, the predecessor and the successor may agree to transfer all the 
previous rights of the worker to the new owner subject to the written consent of the worker.  If the 
worker disapproves, he may request the termination of his contract and collect his dues from the 
predecessor. 
Article 19  
Amounts due to the worker or his heirs under this Law shall be deemed first rate privileged debts and 
the worker and his heirs shall, for the purpose of settling them, be entitled to a privilege over all the 
employer’s properties. In case of the employer’s  bankruptcy or the liquidation of his establishment, 
the aforementioned amounts shall be entered as privileged debts and the worker shall be paid an 
expedited amount equivalent to one-month wage prior to the payment of any other expenses including 
judicial, bankruptcy, or liquidation expenses. 
Article 20  
An employer or a worker may not perform any act that may abuse the provisions of this Law or the 
decisions or regulations issued for its implementation. Neither of them may undertake any act that 
infringes upon the freedom of the other or the freedom of other workers or employers to realize any 
interest or impose a point of view that conflicts with the freedom of work or the jurisdiction of the 
competent authority in charge of the settlement of disputes. 
Article 21  
The Minister, in implementing the provisions of this Law, shall coordinate with relevant authorities 
whenever necessary. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 7 
Part 2: Organization of Recruitment 
Chapter 1: Employment Units 
Article 22  
The Ministry shall provide employment units, free  of charge, at locations convenient for employers 
and workers, which shall undertake the following: 
1. Assist workers in finding suitable jobs and aid employers in recruiting suitable workers. 
2. Gather necessary information on the labor market and its developme nts and analyzing such 
information to make it available to various public and private organizations concerned with 
economic and social planning affairs. 
3. Perform the following duties: 
3.1 Registering job seekers.  
3.2 Obtaining information on vacant jobs from employers. 
3.3 Referring workers’ applications to suitable vacant jobs. 
3.4 Providing advice and assistance to job seekers with respect to vocational qualification and 
training or the required retraining to fill vacancies. 
3.5 Other matters decided by the Ministry. 
Article 23  
Every citizen of working age who is capable of work and willing to work may register his name at 
the employment unit along with his date of birth, qualifications, previous employment, preferences, 
and address. 
Article 24  
The Regulations shall specify the rules and procedures for work progress at employment units, forms 
of registers, notices, and other papers used for its work in addition to job classification tables, 
according to the official job classification, which shall be the basis for organizing recruitment. 
Article 25  
Every employer shall send the following to the competent labor office: 
1. A statement of vacant and new jobs, their types, locations, wages, and qualifications within a 
period not exceeding 15 days from the date of vacancy or creation thereof. 
2. A notice of the measures taken to employ the citizens nominated by the employment unit within 
seven days from receiving the nomination letter. 
3. A list of the names, jobs, professions, wages, ages, and nationalities of his workers, as well as the 
numbers and dates of work permits for non -Saudis and other information specified in the 
Regulations. 
4. A report on the status, conditions, and nature of work and the anticipated increase or decrease in 
jobs during the year following the date of the report. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 8 
5. The statements specified in paragraphs (3) and (4) of this Article shall be sent during the month of 
Muharram of every year. 
Article 26  
1. All establishments in all fields, and regardless of the number of workers, shall work to attract and 
employ Saudis, create conditions to keep them on the job, and avail them of adequate opportunities 
to prove their suitability for the job by guiding, training, and qualifying them for their assigned 
jobs. 
2. The percentage of Saudi workers employed by an employer shall not be less than 75% of the total 
number of his workers. The Minister may temporarily reduce this percentage in case of the lack 
of adequate technically or academically qualified workers or if it is not possible to fill vacant jobs 
with nationals. 
Article 27  
The Minister may – when necessary in certain activities and professions and in some provinces and 
counties - require employers not to employ workers until they have been registered at employment 
units under the terms and conditions specified pursuant to his decision. 
Chapter 2: Employment of the Disabled 
Article 28  
Each employer employing 25 workers or more where the nature of his work allows recruitment of 
the professionally disabled shall employ a number of disabled persons tha t represents at least 4% of 
the total number of his workers whether through nomination by employment units or otherwise. 
He shall send to the competent labor office a list of the jobs and posts occupied by professionally 
qualified disabled persons and their wages. 
Article 29  
If a worker sustains a work injury that results in a loss in his usual capabilities that does not prevent 
him from performing another job, the employer, under whose service the work injury was sustained, 
shall employ said worker in a suitable job for the wage specified for such job. This shall not prejudice 
the worker's due compensation for the injury. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 9 
Chapter 3: Private Offices for the Recruitment of Citizens and Private Offices for Recruiting 
from Abroad 
Article 30  
A natural or corp orate person may not engage in the recruitment of Saudis or in the recruitment of 
workers from abroad unless licensed by the Ministry.  
The Regulations shall specify the functions of these two types of activities, the conditions for granting 
and renewing a  license to each of them, and the duties and prohibitions as well as rules for non -
renewal or revocation of the license and the consequences thereof, and other conditions and controls 
necessary for ensuring the proper conduct of business. 
Article 31  
Saudi workers to whose employment the recruitment offices contributed and workers recruited from 
abroad on behalf of employers shall be deemed workers of the employer and bound to him by direct 
contractual relation. 
Part 3: Employment of Non-Saudis 
Article 32  
Recruitment from abroad for the purpose of work may not be undertaken without the approval of the 
Ministry. 
Article 33  
A non-Saudi may not engage in or be allowed to engage in any work except after obtaining a work 
permit from the Ministry, according to the form prepared by it for this purpose. The conditions for 
granting the permit are as follows: 
1. The worker has lawfully entered the country and is authorized to work. 
2. The worker possesses the professional or academic qualifications which the country needs  and 
which are not possessed by citizens or the available number of such citizens is insufficient to meet 
the needs, or that he belongs to the class of ordinary workers that the country needs. 
3. The worker has a contract with an employer and is under his responsibility.  
The word work in this Article shall mean any industrial, commercial, agricultural, financial, or other 
work, and any service including domestic service. 
Article 34  
No permit or license required by any other agency for engaging in a work or profession shall 
substitute for said work permit. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 10 
Article 35 
Prior to renewing the work permit, it shall be ascertained that none of the Saudi applicants possesses 
the required qualifications and is willing to undertake the same work. 
Article 36  
The Minister shall issue a decision specifying the professions and jobs which are prohibited for non-
Saudis. 
Article 37  
The employment contract for non-Saudis shall be written and of a fixed term. If the contract does not 
specify the duration, the duration of the work permit shall be deemed the duration of the contract. 
Article 38  
An employer may not employ a worker in a profession other than the one specified in his work permit. 
A worker is prohibited from engaging in a profession other than his before taking the legal measures 
necessary to change his profession.  
Article 39 
1. Unless he has followed the stipulated legal rules and procedures, an employer may not allow his 
worker to work for others, and a worker may not work for other employers. Similarly, an employer 
may not employ workers of other employers. 
2. An employer may not allow a worker to work for his own account and a worker may not work for 
his own account. 
Article 40  
1. An employer shall bear the fees pertaining to the recruitment of non -Saudi workers, the fe es for 
issuing and renewing residence permit (Iqama) and work permit, and the fines resulting from their 
delay, as well as the fees pertaining to change of profession, exit and re -entry visas, and return 
tickets to the worker’s home country at the end of the relation between the two parties. 
2. A worker shall bear the costs of returning to his home country if he is unfit for work or if he wishes 
to return to his home country without a legitimate reason. 
3. An employer shall bear the fees of transferring the services of a worker who wishes to transfer his 
service to him. 
4. An employer shall be responsible for the cost of preparing the body of a deceased worker and 
transporting it to the location where the contract was concluded, or where the worker was recruited 
unless the worker is interred in the Kingdom with the approval of his family. The employer shall 
be relieved if the General Organization for Social Insurance (GOSI) undertakes the same. 
Article 41  
The Regulations shall specify the conditions, controls, and procedures for recruitment from abroad, 
transfer of services, and change of profession. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 11 
Part 4: Training and Qualification 
Chapter 1: Training and Qualification of the Employer’s Workers 
Article 42  
An employer shall be required to prepare his Saudi workers and enhance their technical, 
administrative, vocational, and other skills for the purpose of gradually replacing non -Saudis. The 
employer shall keep a record showing the names of the Saudi workers who have replaced non-Saudis 
in accordance with the conditions and rules set forth in the Regulations. 
Article 43 
Without prejudice to the conditions set forth in concession and other agreements relative to training, 
qualification, education, and scholarships, every employer employing 50 or more workers sh all 
annually train, in his business, a number of his Saudi workers not less than 6% of the total number of 
his workers. The Minister may raise this percentage in certain establishments pursuant to a decision 
by him. 
Article 44  
The training program shall i nclude the rules and conditions to be followed in training, its duration, 
number of hours, theoretical and practical training programs, testing method, and the certificates to 
be granted in this regard. The Regulations shall set forth the general criteria and rules to be followed 
in this regard to raise the worker’s level of performance in terms of skill and productivity. 
Chapter 2: Qualification and Training Contracts of other than the Employer’s Workers 
Article 45  
A training or qualification contract is a contract which commits the employer to train and qualify a 
person for a specific profession. 
Article 46  
A training or qualification contract shall be in writing, and shall indicate the profession for which the 
training is provided, the duration of train ing and its successive stages, and the allowance to be paid 
to the trainee at each stage, provided that it is not based on piecemeal or productivity. 
Article 47  
The Minister may require establishments, to be determined pursuant to a decision by him, to ac cept 
a certain number or percentage of the students and graduates of colleges, institutes, and centers to 
receive training and supplementary practical experience in accordance with the conditions, 
circumstances, durations, and trainee allowances to be spec ified in an agreement to be concluded 
between the Ministry and the management of the relevant establishment. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 12 
Article 48 
The employer may terminate the training or qualification contract if the trainee, in his opinion, is not 
amenable to or incapable of completing the training program in a beneficial manner. The trainee, his 
guardian or trustee shall have the same right. The party wishing to terminate the contract shall notify 
the other party at least one week prior to the date of cessation of the training.  
The employer may require the trainee to work for him upon completion of the training period for a 
period not to exceed twice the duration of the training or one year, whichever is longer. 
Article 49  
The training and qualification contract shall be subject to the provisions of this Law in terms of annual 
vacations, official holidays, maximum working hours, daily and weekly  rest periods, occupational 
health and safety rules, and work injuries and their conditions as well as whatever is decided by the 
Minister. 
Part 5: Work Relations 
Chapter 1: Employment Contract 
Article 50  
An employment contract is a contract concluded bet ween an employer and a worker, whereby the 
latter undertakes to work under the management or supervision of the former for a wage. 
Article 51  
The employment contract shall be executed in duplicate, one copy to be retained by each of the two 
parties. However, a contract shall be deemed to exist even if not written. In this case the worker alone 
may establish the contract and his entitlements arising therefrom by all methods of proof. Either party 
may at any time demand that the contract be in writing. As for workers of the government and public 
corporations, the appointment decision or order issued by the competent authority shall serve as the 
contract. 
Article 52 
The employment contract shall primarily include the name of the employer, venue, the name of the 
worker, nationality, identification, wage agreed upon, type and location of work, date of employment, 
duration of the contract if fixed, subject to the provisions of Article 37 of this Law. 
Article 53 
If the worker is subject to a probation period, the same shall be expressly stated and clearly indicated 
in the employment contract. Such probation period shall not exceed 90 days, exclusive of Eid al-Fitr 
and Eid al-Adha holidays and sick leaves. Each party shall have the right to terminate the contract 
during this period, unless the contract embodies a clause giving the right to terminate the contract to 
only one of them. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 13 
Article 54 
A worker may not be placed on probation more than once by the same employer. As an exception to 
this, the worker may, with t he approval of the contract parties, be subjected to another probation 
period of not more than 90 days on the condition that this period involves another profession or work. 
If the contract is terminated during the probation period, neither party shall be entitled to 
compensation nor shall the worker be entitled to an end-of-service award. 
Article 55 
1. The fixed-term contract shall terminate upon expiration of its term. If the two parties continue to 
implement it, it shall be deemed renewed for an indefinite period of time, subject to the provisions 
of Article 37 of this Law for non-Saudi workers. 
2. If the fixed -term contract incorporates a clause providing for its renewal for a similar term or a 
specified term, the contract shall be renewed for the period agreed upon. If the contract is renewed 
for two consecutive terms or if the original contract term and the renewal period amount to three 
years, whichever is less, and the two parties continue to implement it, the contract shall become 
an indefinite term contract. 
Article 56  
In all cases where the contract term is renewed for a specific period of time, the contract renewal 
period shall be deemed an extension of the original term in determining the worker’s rights which 
takes into account the worker’s period of service. 
Article 57  
If the contract involves performance of a specific work, it shall terminate with the completion of the 
agreed upon work. 
Article 58 
The employer may not transfer the worker from his original workplace to another place that entails a 
change in his place of residence, if such transfer is likely to cause serious harm to the worker and is 
not justified by the nature of work. 
Article 59  
A monthly-paid worker may not be reclassified as a daily-paid, a weekly-paid, or hourly-paid worker 
nor as a worker paid by piecework, unless the worker agrees thereto in writing and without prejudice 
to the rights he has acquired during the period he spent as a monthly-paid worker.  
Article 60  
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 38 of this Law,  a worker may not be assigned duties 
which are essentially different from the agreed upon work without his written consent, except in cases 
of necessity dictated by transient circumstances and for a period not exceeding 30 days a year. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 14 
Chapter 2: Duties and Disciplinary Rules 
First: Employers’ Duties 
Article 61  
In addition to the duties provided for in this Law and the regulations and decisions issued for its 
implementation, the employer shall be required to: 
1. Refrain from resorting to forced labor, or withholding the worker’s wage or part thereof without 
court order, or mistreating the worker in any manner that may infringe upon his dignity or religion. 
2. Give the workers the time required to exercise their rights as provided for in this Law without any 
deductions from their wages against such time. He may regulate the exercise of this right in a 
manner not detrimental to work progress. 
3. Facilitate for the employees of the competent authorities any task related to the enforcement of the 
provisions of this Law. 
Article 62  
If the worker reports to work on the prescribed time or expresses his readiness to perform his work 
at such time but is prevented from doing so only by a cause which is ascribed to the employer, the 
worker shall be entitled to the wage for the period during which no work is performed. 
Article 63  
The employer, his agents, or any person having authority over the workers shall prohibit the entry of 
any illegal substances into places of work. Anyone who is found in possession of or consumes suc h 
substances shall be subject to the punishments provided for in this Law, without prejudice to other 
punishments provided for in Sharia. 
Article 64 
Upon expiration of the employment contract, the employer shall be required to: 
1. Give the worker, upon his request and free of charge, a certificate of work experience, indicating 
date of his employment, date of end of work, his profession, and the last wage received. If the 
certificate contains any remarks that are prejudicial to the worker’s reputation or likely to limit his 
employment chances, the reasons shall be given. 
2. Return to the worker all certificates and documents he had submitted. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 15 
Second: Workers’ Duties 
Article 65  
In addition to the duties provided for in this Law, the regulations , and the decisions issued in 
implementation thereof, the worker shall be required to: 
1. perform the work in accordance with the trade practice and the employer’s instructions provided 
that such instructions do not conflict with the contract, the law, or public morality and that they do 
not expose him to any undue hazards; 
2. take due care of the employer’s machinery, tools, supplies, and raw materials which are placed at 
his disposal or in his custody and return unused materials to the employer; 
3. abide by proper conduct and ethical norms during work; 
4. extend all assistance and help without making it contingent on additional pay in cases of disasters 
or hazards threatening the workplace or the persons working therein; 
5. undergo, upon the employer’s request, the medical examinations required prior to or during 
employment to ensure that he is free from occupational or communicable diseases; and 
6. keep confidential the technical, trade, and industrial secrets of the materials he produces or those 
to which he directly or indirectly contributes to the production thereof, as well as all trade secrets 
related to the wo rk or establishment, the disclosure of which is likely to cause damage to the 
employer’s interests. 
Third: Disciplinary Rules 
Article 66  
The disciplinary penalties that an employer may inflict on a worker are as follows: 
1. Warnings. 
2. Fines. 
3. Withholding or postponing a raise for a period not exceeding one year if prescribed by the 
employer. 
4. Postponement of a promotion for a period not exceeding one year if prescribed by the employer. 
5. Suspension from work and withholding wages. 
6. Dismissal from work in cases set forth by the law. 
Article 67  
An employer may not inflict on a worker a penalty not provided for in this Law or in the work 
organization regulation. 
Article 68  
A penalty shall not be made harsher in the event of a repeated violation if 180 days have elapsed since 
the previous violation was committed, as of the date the worker is informed of the penalty for that 
violation. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 16 
Article 69  
A worker may not be accused of any violation discovered after the elapse of more than 30 days, nor 
shall he be subjecte d to a disciplinary penalty after the elapse of more than 30 days from the 
conclusion of the investigation and establishment of the worker’s guilt. 
Article 70  
A worker may not be subjected to a disciplinary penalty for an act committed outside the workplace 
unless such act is related to the job, the employer, or the manager in -charge. Nor may a worker be 
fined for a single violation an amount in excess of a five -day wage, and not more than one penalty 
shall be applied for the same violation. No more than t he equivalent of a five -day wage shall be 
deducted from his wage in one month in the payment of fines, and his suspension from work without 
pay may not exceed five days a month. 
Article 71  
A disciplinary action may not be imposed on a worker except after notifying him in writing of the 
allegations, interrogating him, hearing his defense, and recording the same in minutes to be kept in 
his file. The interrogation may be verbal in minor violations the penalty for which does not exceed a 
warning or the deduct ion of an amount equivalent to one -day wage. This shall be recorded in the 
minutes. 
Article 72 
The worker shall be notified in writing of the penalty decision imposed against him. If he refuses to 
receive the same or if he is absent, the notice shall be sent to the address shown in his file by registered 
mail. The worker may object to the decision of imposing the penalty upon him within 15 days, 
excluding official holidays, from the date of notifying him of the final decision. The objection shall 
be filed with the Commission for the Settlement of Labor Disputes which shall be required to issue 
its decision within 30 days from the date of registering the objection. 
Article 73 
Fines imposed on the workers shall be entered in a special record, showing the wor ker’s name, his 
wages, the amount of the fine, reasons and date of the fine. Such fines may not be disposed of except 
for the benefit of the establishment’s workers, upon the Ministry’s approval. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 17 
Chapter 3: Termination of an Employment Contract 
Article 74 
An employment contract shall terminate in the following cases: 
1. If both parties agree to terminate it, provided that the worker’s consent be in writing. 
2. If the term specified in the contract expires, unless the contract has been explicitly renewed in 
accordance with the provisions of this Law in which case it shall remain in force until the expiry 
of its term.  
3. At the discretion of either party in indefinite term contracts. 
4. The worker attains the age of retirement, which is 60 years for males and 55 years for females, 
unless the two parties agree upon continuing work after this age. The retirement age may be 
reduced in cases of early retirement as provided for in the work organization regulation. If it is a 
fixed-term employment contract which extends beyond the retirement age, it shall terminate at the 
end of its term. 
5. Force majeure. 
The provisions of paragraph (4) of this Article shall apply two years after this Law enters into force. 
Article 75 
If the contract is of an indefinite term, either party may terminate it for a valid reason to be specified 
in a written notice to be served to the other party at least 30 days prior to the termination date if the 
worker is paid monthly and not less than 15 days for others. 
Article 76 
If the party terminating the contract does not observe the period provided for in Article 75  of this 
Law, such party shall be required to pay the other party compensation equal to the worker’s wage for 
the duration of the notice or the balance thereof. The last wage received by the worker shall serve as 
the basis for estimating the compensation for workers who are paid by the time frame criterion.  
For workers who are paid by another criterion, the estimation shall take into account the provisions 
of Article 96 of this Law. 
Article 77 
If the contract is terminated for an invalid reason, the party who is harmed by such termination shall 
be entitled to indemnity to be assessed by the Commission for the Settlement of Labor Disputes, 
taking into account the term ination circumstances and actual and potential material and moral 
damages sustained. 
Article 78 
A worker who has been dismissed from work without valid reason may demand reinstatement. Such 
claims shall be considered in accordance with the provisions of th is Law and the Litigation 
Regulations before the Commissions for the Settlement of Labor Disputes. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 18 
Article 79  
An employment contract shall not expire by the death of the employer unless his person has been 
taken into consideration in concluding the contra ct, but shall expire with the death or incapacity of 
the worker pursuant to a medical report approved by the competent health authority or the authorized 
physician designated by the employer. 
Article 80 
An employer may not terminate the contract without an  award, advance notice or indemnity except 
in the following cases, and provided that he gives the worker a chance to state his reasons for 
objecting to the termination: 
1. If, during or by reason of the work, the worker assaults the employer, the manager in-charge or 
any of his superiors. 
2. If the worker fails to perform his essential obligations arising from the employment contract, or to 
obey legitimate orders, or if, in spite of written warnings, he deliberately fails to observe the 
instructions related t o the safety of work and workers as may be posted by the employer in a 
prominent place. 
3. If it is established that the worker has committed a misconduct or an act infringing on honesty or 
integrity. 
4. If the worker deliberately commits any act or default with  the intent to cause material loss to the 
employer, provided that the latter shall report the incident to the appropriate authorities within 
twenty-four hours from being aware of such occurrence. 
5. If the worker resorts to forgery in order to obtain the job. 
6. If the worker is hired on probation. 
7. If the worker is absent without valid reason for more than 20 days in one year or for more than 10 
consecutive days, provided that the dismissal be preceded by a written warning from the employer 
to the worker if the latter is absent for 10 days in the first case and for five days in the second. 
8. If the worker unlawfully takes advantage of his position for personal gain. 
9. If the worker discloses work-related industrial or commercial secrets. 
Article 81  
Without prejudice to all of his statutory rights, a worker may leave his job without notice in any of 
the following cases: 
1. If the employer fails to fulfill his essential contractual or statutory obligations towards the worker. 
2. If the employer or his representative resorts to fraud at the time of contracting with respect to work 
conditions and circumstances. 
3. If the employer assigns the worker, without his consent, to perform work which is essentially 
different from the agreed upon work and in violation of the provisions of Article 60 of this Law. 
4. If the employer, a family member thereof, or the manager in -charge commits a violent assault or 
an immoral act against the worker or any of his family members. 
5. If the treatment of the employer or the manager in-charge is characterized by cruelty, injustice, or 
insult. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 19 
6. If there exists in the workplace a serious hazard threatening the safety or health of the worker, 
provided that the employer is aware thereof but fails to take measures indicating its removal. 
7. If the employer or his repr esentative, through his actions and particularly his unjust treatment or 
violation of the terms of the contract, causes the worker to appear as the party terminating the 
contract. 
Article 82  
An employer may not terminate the worker’s services on account of illness prior to availing him of 
the period designated for sick leave as provided for in this Law. The worker shall have the right to 
request that his sick leave be combined with his annual leave. 
Article 83 
If the work assigned to the worker allows him to get acquainted with the employer’s customers, or to 
have access to his business secrets, the employer may require the worker in the contract not to 
compete with him or reveal his secrets upon expiration of the contract. For this condition to be valid, 
it shall be in writing and specific in terms of time, place and type of work and to the extent required 
to protect the legitimate interests of the employer. In all cases, the duration of such agreement shall 
not exceed two years from the date of termination of the relationship between the two parties. 
Chapter 4: End-of-Service Award 
Article 84  
Upon the end of the employment relation, the employer shall pay the worker an end-of-service award 
equivalent to the amount of a half-month wage for each of the first five years and a one-month wage 
for each of the following years. The end-of-service award shall be calculated on the basis of the last 
wage and the worker shall be entitled to an end -of-service award for the portions of the year in 
proportion to the time spent on the job. 
Article 85  
If the employment relation ends due to the worker’s resignation, he shall, in this case, be entitled to 
one third of the award after service of not less than two consecutive years and not more than five 
years, to two thirds if his service is in excess of five consecutive years but less than 10 years, and to 
the full award if his service amounts to 10 years or more. 
Article 86  
As an exception to the provisions of Article 8 of this Law, it may be agreed that the wage used as a 
basis for calculating the end-of-service award does not include all or some of the commissions, sales 
percentages, and similar wage components paid to the worker which are by their nature subject to 
increase or decrease.  
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 20 
Article 87  
As an exception to the  provisions of Article 85 of this Law, the worker shall be entitled to the full 
end-of-service award if he leaves the work due to a force majeure beyond his control. A female 
worker shall likewise be entitled to the full award if she ends her contract within six months from the 
date of her marriage or three months from the date of giving birth. 
Article 88  
Upon the end of the worker’s service, the employer shall pay his wages and settle his entitlements 
within a maximum period of one week from the date of t he end of the contractual relation. If the 
worker ends the contract, the employer shall settle all his entitlements within a period not exceeding 
two weeks. The employer may deduct any work -related debt due to him from the worker’s 
entitlements. 
Part 6: Work Conditions and Circumstances 
Chapter 1: Wages 
Article 89  
The Council of Ministers may, when necessary and upon a proposal by the Minister, set a minimum 
wage. 
Article 90 
1. The worker’s wages and all other entitlements shall be paid in the Country’s off icial currency. 
Wages shall be paid during working hours and at the workplace in accordance with the following 
provisions: 
1.1 Workers paid on a daily basis shall be paid at least once a week. 
1.2 Workers paid on a monthly basis shall be paid once a month. 
1.3 If the work is done by the piece and requires a period of more than two weeks, the worker shall 
receive a payment each week commensurate with the completed portion of the work. The balance 
of the wage shall be paid in full during the week following delivery of the work. 
1.4 In cases other than the above, the worker’s wages shall be paid at least once a week. 
2. Wages may be paid through accredited banks in the Kingdom, with the consent of the worker, 
provided that their due dates do not exceed the dates specified above. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 21 
Article 91 
1. If the worker, as a result of his own fault or violation of the employer’s instructions and not as a 
result of a third party’s fault or a force majeure, causes loss, damage or destruction to machineries 
or products owned by the e mployer while in his custody, the employer may deduct from the 
worker’s wage the amount necessary for repair or restoration to the original condition, provided 
that such deductions do not exceed a five-day wage per month. The employer may file a grievance, 
if necessary, demanding more deductions if the worker has other properties from which collections 
may be made. The worker may file a grievance with the Commission for the Settlement of Labor 
Disputes regarding the allegations leveled at him or the employer’s estimation of the damages. If 
the Commission rules that the employer is not entitled to claim such deductions or if it awards the 
employer a lower amount, the employer shall return to the worker the amounts unjustifiably 
deducted, within seven days from the date of the award. 
2. Either party shall file its grievance within 15 work days; otherwise, it shall forfeit his right thereto. 
For the employer, the date of filing the grievance shall be from the date the occurrence is 
discovered, and for the worker from the date of his notification of the same by the employer. 
Article 92  
No amount shall be deducted from a worker’s wages against private rights without his written 
consent, except in the following cases: 
1. Repayment of loans extended by the employer, provided that such deductions do not exceed 10% 
of his wage. 
2. Social insurance or any other contributions due on workers as provided for by law. 
3. Worker’s contributions to thrift funds or loans due to such funds. 
4. Installments of any scheme undertaken by the employer involving home ownership programs or 
any other privilege.  
5. Fines imposed on the worker on account of violations he commits, as well as deductions made for 
damages he causes. 
6. Any debt collected in implementation of a judicial judgment, provided that the monthly deduction 
shall not exceed one quarter of the worker's wage, unless the judgment provides otherwise.  
First to be collected is alimony, followed by food, clothing, and accommodation debts, before other 
debts. 
Article 93 
In all cases, deductions made may not exceed half the worker’s due wage, unless the Commission for 
the Settlement of Labor Disputes determines that further deductions can be made or that the worker 
is in need of more than half his wage. In the latter case, the worker may not be given more than three 
quarters of his wage. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 22 
Article 94  
1. If any amount is deducted from a worker’s wages for reasons other than those specified in this 
Law without his written consent, or if an employer delays, without a valid justification, paymen t 
of a worker’s wage beyond the due date set forth in the Law, the worker, his representative, or the 
head of the competent labor office may submit a request to the Commission for the Settlement of 
Labor Disputes to order the employer to return to the work er any wrongfully-deducted amounts 
or to pay him his outstanding wages. 
2. Said Commission may, if it establishes that the employer has unjustifiably deducted said amounts 
or delayed the payment of wages, impose on the employer a fine not exceeding twice the amount 
deducted from the worker’s wage or twice the outstanding wages. 
Article 95 
1. If the employment contract or the work organization regulation does not provide for the wage 
binding on the employer, the wage estimated for the same type of work in the establishment, if 
any, shall be adopted; otherwise, the wage shall be estimated in accordance with the norms of the 
profession at the place where the work is performed. In the absence of such norms, the 
Commission for Settlement of Labor Disputes shall e stimate the wage in accordance with the 
dictates of justice. 
2. The same shall also apply in determining the type and scope of the service that the worker is 
required to render. 
Article 96  
1. If the worker’s wage is determined on the basis of piecework or produ ctivity, the average wage 
which the worker receives for his actual work days during the last year of his service shall be used 
as the basis for calculating any entitlements determined for the worker under this Law. 
2. If the entire wage is the amounts received as commissions, percentages of sales, or the like which 
are by nature subject to increases or decreases, the daily average wage shall be calculated on the 
basis of the amounts the worker receives for the actual work days, divided by them. 
Article 97  
If a worker is detained or taken into custody by the competent authorities in cases related to work or 
occasioned by it, the employer shall continue to pay the worker 50% of the wage until the case is 
decided, provided that the period of detention or custody shall not exceed 180 days. If said period 
exceeds that, the employer shall not be required to pay any portion of the wage for the excess period. 
If the worker is acquitted or the investigation is closed for lack of evidence or invalidity thereof, the 
employer shall return to the worker the amount previously deducted from his wage. However, if he 
is convicted, none of the payments made to him shall be recovered unless the judgment provides 
otherwise. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 23 
Chapter 2: Working Hours 
Article 98 
A worker may not actually work for more than eight hours a day if the employer uses the daily work 
criterion, or more than 48 hours a week if he uses the weekly criterion. During the month of Ramadan, 
actual working hours shall be reduced for Muslims to a maximum of six ho urs a day or 36 hours a 
week. 
Article 99 
The number of working hours provided for in Article 98 of this Law may be raised to nine hours a 
day for certain categories of workers or in certain industries and jobs where the worker does not work 
continuously. It may likewise be reduced to seven hours a day for certain categories of workers or in 
certain hazardous or harmful industries or jobs. Categories of workers, industries, and jobs referred 
to shall be determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article 100 
In establishments where work is done in shifts, an employer may, with the Ministry’s approval, 
increase the number of working hours to more than eight hours a day or 48 hours a week, provided 
that the average working hours when calculated for thr ee weeks' time or less shall not be more than 
eight hours a day or 48 hours a week. 
Chapter 3: Rest Periods and Weekly Rest Days 
First: Rest Periods 
Article 101 
Working hours and rest periods during the day shall be scheduled so that no worker shall work f or 
more than five consecutive hours without a break of no less than thirty minutes each time during the 
total working hours for rest, prayer and meals, provided that a worker shall not remain at the 
workplace for more than 11 hours a day.  
Article 102  
The periods designated for rest, prayers, and meals shall not be included in the actual working hours. 
During such periods, the worker shall not be under the employer’s authority. The employer shall not 
require the worker to remain at the workplace during such breaks. 
Article 103  
The Minister may specify, pursuant to a decision by him, the cases and jobs where work shall continue 
without breaks, for technical reasons or operational conditions. In such cases and jobs, the employer 
shall allow prayer, meals, and rest periods to be scheduled during working hours by the management 
of the establishment. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 24 
Second: Weekly Rest Days 
Article 104 
1. Friday shall be the weekly rest day for all workers. 
After notification of the competent labor office, the employer may replace this day for some of his 
workers by any other day of the week. The employer shall allow the workers to perform their religious 
obligations. The weekly rest day may not be compensated by cash. 
2. The weekly rest day shall be at full pay and shall not be less than 24 consecutive hours. 
Article 105  
As an exception to the provisions of Article 104 of this Law, in remote areas and in jobs where the 
nature of work and operational conditions require continuous work, weekly rest periods accruing to 
the worker may be consolidated for up to eight weeks if the employer and the workers agree to that 
effect, subject to the Ministry’s approval. In calculating consolidated weekly rest periods, it shall be 
taken into consideration that said periods begin at the hour the workers arrive at the nearest city with 
transportation services and end at the hour the workers return to it. 
Article 106 
An employer may not comply with the provisions of Articles 98, 101, and 104(1) of this Law, in the 
following cases: 
1. Annual inventory activities, preparation of the budget, liquidation, closing of accounts, and 
preparations for discounts and seasonal sales, provided that the number of days during which the 
workers work shall not exceed 30 days a year. 
2. If the work is intended to prevent a hazardous accident, remedy its impact, or avoid an imminent 
loss of perishable materials. 
3. If the work is intended to meet unusual work pressure. 
4. Eids, other seasons and occasions, and seasonal activities specified pursuant to a decision by the 
Minister.  
In all of the above cases, actual working hours shall not exceed 10 hours a day or 60 hours a week. 
The maximum overtime hours allowed per year shall be determined by a decision of the Minister. 
Article 107  
1. The employer shall pay the worker for each overtime hour the hourly rate of his basic wage plus 
50% thereof. 
2. If the establishment is operated on the basis of weekly working hours, the hours in excess of the 
hours taken as the criterion shall be deemed overtime hours. 
3. All working hours performed during holidays and Eids shall be deemed overtime hours. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 25 
Article 108  
The provisions of Articles 98 and 101 of this Law shall not apply to the following cases: 
1. Persons occupying high positions of authority in management and policy, if such positions gr ant 
the persons occupying them authority over workers. 
2. Preparatory or supplementary work which must be completed before the commencement or after 
the end of work. 
3. Work that is intermittent by necessity. 
4. Guards and janitors, excluding civil security guards. 
The Regulations shall specify the jobs listed under paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this Article and 
their maximum working hours. 
Chapter 4: Leaves 
Article 109  
1. A worker shall be entitled to a prepaid annual leave of not less than 21 days, to be increased to a 
period of not less than 30 days if the worker spends five consecutive years in the service of the 
employer.  
2. A worker shall enjoy his leave in the year it i s due. He may not forgo it or receive cash in lieu 
during his period of service. The employer may set the dates of such leaves according to work 
requirements or may grant them in rotation to ensure the smooth progress of work. The employer 
shall notify the worker of the date of his leave in sufficient time of not less than 30 days. 
Article 110  
1. A worker may, with the employer’s approval, postpone his annual leave or days thereof to the 
following year. 
2. An employer may postpone, for a period of not more than 90 days, the worker’s leave after the 
end of the year it is due if required by work conditions. If work conditions require extension of the 
postponement, the worker’s consent must be obtained in writing. Such postponement shall not, 
however, exceed the end of the year following the year the leave is due. 
Article 111  
A worker shall be entitled to a wage for the accrued days of the leave if he leaves the work without 
using such leave. This applies to the period of work for which he has not used his leave. He  is also 
entitled to a leave pay for the parts of the year in proportion to the part he spent at work. 
Article 112  
Each worker shall be entitled to a fully paid leave on Eids and occasions specified in the Regulations. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 26 
Article 113 
A worker shall be entitled to one day of paid leave in the case of childbirth and three days for marriage 
or in the case of the death of a spouse or one of his ascendants and descendants. The employer may 
request supporting documents for cases referred to. 
Article 114  
A worker shall be entitled to a paid leave of not less than 10 days and not more than 15 days, including 
Eid Al-Adha holiday, to perform Hajj only once during his service if he has not performed it before. 
To be eligible for this leave, the worker must have sp ent at least two consecutive years of service 
with the employer. The employer may determine the number of workers who shall be given this leave 
annually in accordance with work requirements. 
Article 115 
A worker enrolled in an educational institution shall  have the right to a fully paid leave to sit for an 
examination of an unrepeated year. Days of leave shall be based on the actual number of the 
examination days. However, for the examinations of a repeated year, the worker shall be entitled to 
unpaid leave to sit for the examinations. The employer may require the worker to submit documents 
in support of the leave application as well as proof of having taken the examination. The worker shall 
apply for the leave at least fifteen days ahead of the due date. Without prejudice to disciplinary action, 
the worker shall be denied the wage if it is proven that he had not taken the examination. 
Article 116  
A worker, subject to the employer’s approval, may obtain an unpaid leave for a duration to be agreed 
upon by the two parties. The employment contract shall be deemed suspended for the duration of the 
leave in excess of 20 days, unless both parties agree otherwise. 
Article 117  
A worker whose illness has been proven shall be eligible for a paid sick leave for the first 30 days, 
three quarters of the wage for the next 60 days, and without pay for the following 30 days, during a 
single year, whether such leaves are continuous or intermittent. A single year shall mean the year 
which begins from the date of the first sick leave. 
Article 118  
A worker may not work for another employer, while enjoying any of the leaves provided for in this 
Chapter. If the employer proves that the worker has violated this provision, he may deprive him of 
his wages for the duration of the leave or recover any wages previously paid to him. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 27 
Part 7: Part-Time Work 
Article 119  
Full-time workers who are affected by a collective temporary reduction in their normal working hours 
for economic, technical, or structural reasons shall not be considered part-time workers. 
Article 120  
The Minister shall issue the necessary rules and controls for organizing part -time work, indicating 
therein the obligations of part -time workers and employers. To the exclusion of the protection 
extended to similar full -time workers in terms of occupational health and safety and work injuries, 
the provisions of this Law shall apply only to the extent determined by the Minister. 
Part 8: Protection Against Occupational Hazards, Major Industrial Accidents and Work 
Injuries, and Health and Social Services 
Chapter 1: Protection Against Occupational Hazards 
Article 121  
An employer shall maintain the establishment in a clean and hygienic condition. He shall provide 
lighting, supply potable and washing water, and comply with other rules, measures, and standards of 
occupational protection, health, and safety in accordance with what is specified in the Minister’s 
decision. 
Article 122  
An employer shall take the necessary precautions to protect workers against hazards, occupational 
diseases, and the machinery in use, and shall ensure work safety and protection. He shall post in a 
visible place in the establishment the instructions related to work and workers’ safety in Arabic and, 
when necessary, in any other language the workers understand. The employer may not charge the 
workers or deduct from their wages any amounts for the provision of such protection. 
Article 123  
An employer shall inform the worker, prior to engaging in the work, of the hazards of his job and 
said employer shall require him to use the prescribed protective equipment. The employer shall 
supply workers with the appropriate personal protective gear and train them on its use.  
Article 124  
A worker shall use and preserve the personal protective equipment designated for each process and 
shall adhere to the instructions established to protect his health against injuries and diseases. He shall 
refrain from any action or omission that may lead to failure to implement the instructions, or misuse 
or impairment of the devices provided to protect the workplace as well as the health and safety of 
fellow workers.  
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 28 
Article 125  
An employer shall take necessary pr ecautions for protection against fire and provide the technical 
means to combat it, including safety exits which shall be maintained in working condition at all times. 
He shall post in a visible location in the workplace detailed instructions for fire prevention devices. 
Article 126  
An employer shall be responsible for emergencies and accidents which may affect persons, other than 
his workers, who enter the workplace by virtue of their official duties or with the approval of the 
employer or his agents, if such emergencies and accidents are due to negligence in taking the technical 
precautions required by the nature of his work, and he shall compensate them for damage and harm 
they may sustain in accordance with the general laws. 
Chapter 2: Protection Against Major Industrial Accidents 
Article 127  
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to high risk establishments. 
Article 128  
1. The term “high risk establishment” shall mean a n establishment which produces, prepares, 
disposes of, handles, uses, or stores, on a permanent or temporary basis, one or more hazardous 
substances, or categories of these substances, in quantities that exceed permissible limits the 
exceeding of which results in listing the establishment among the high risk establishments. 
2. The term “hazardous substance” shall mean any substance or mixture of substances that constitutes 
a hazard on account of its chemical, physical, or toxic properties either alone or in combination 
with other substances. 
3. The term “major accident” shall mean any sudden occurrence, such as a major leak, fire, or 
explosion in the course of an activity within a high risk establishment and which involves one or 
more hazardous substances posing a great immediate or potential danger to the workers, the public, 
or the environment. 
Article 129  
The Ministry shall establish controls to identify high risk establishments according to the list of 
hazardous substances, their categories, or both. 
Article 130  
Employers shall coordinate with the Ministry to determine the status of their establishments on the 
basis of the controls referred to in Article 129 of this Law. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 29 
Article 131 
The Minister shall issue the regulations and decisions that include the necessary arrangements at 
establishment level for protection against major hazards, related duties of employers, arrangements 
for protecting the public and the environment outside th e site of each high risk establishment, 
worker’s rights and duties, and other measures necessary to prevent major accidents, minimize the 
risks of their occurrence, and mitigate their impacts 
Chapter 3: Work Injuries 
Article 132  
The provisions of this C hapter shall not apply to the establishments subject to the Occupational 
Hazards Branch of the Social Insurance Law. 
Article 133  
If a worker sustains a work injury or an occupational disease, the employer shall be required to treat 
him and assume, direc tly or indirectly, all necessary expenses, including hospitalization, medical 
examinations and tests, radiology, prosthetic devices, and transportation expenses to treatment 
centers. 
Article 134  
An injury shall be deemed a work injury in accordance with the provisions of the Social Insurance 
Law. Occupational diseases shall also be considered work injuries and the date of the first medical 
diagnosis of the disease shall be treated tantamount to the date of injury. 
Article 135  
Any relapse or complication arising from an injury shall be deemed an injury and shall be treated as 
such in terms of aid and treatment. 
Article 136  
Occupational diseases shall be determined in accordance with the Occupational Diseases Schedule 
provided for in the Social Insurance L aw. Degree of total or partial disability shall be determined 
according to the Disability Percentage Guide provided for in said law. 
Article 137 
In the case of temporary disability arising from work injury, the injured party shall be entitled to 
financial aid equal to his full wage for 30 days, then 75% of the wage for the entire duration of his 
treatment. If one year elapses or it is medically determined that the injured party’s chances of recovery 
are improbable or that he is not physically fit to work, his injury shall be deemed total disability. The 
contract shall be terminated and the worker shall be compensated for the injury. The employer may 
not recover the payments made to the injured worker during that year. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 30 
Article 138  
If an injury results in a permanent total disability or the death of the injured person, the injured person 
or his eligible beneficiaries shall be entitled to a compensation equal to his wages for three years, 
with a minimum of 54,000 riyals. 
If the injury results in a permanent par tial disability, the injured person shall be entitled to a 
compensation equal to the percentage of the estimated disability in accordance with the approved 
Disability Percentage Guide schedule multiplied by the amount of compensation for permanent total 
disability. 
Article 139  
An employer shall not be required to comply with the provisions of Articles 133, 137, and 138 of this 
Law if any of the following is established: 
1. If a worker deliberately injures himself. 
2. If an injury is caused by intentional misconduct on the part of the worker. 
3. If a worker refuses to be examined by a physician or refuses to accept treatment by the physician 
designated by the employer without a valid reason. 
Article 140  
Liability of previous employers of a worker suffering from an o ccupational disease shall be 
determined in light of the medical report of the attending physician. Previous employers shall be 
required to pay the compensation provided for in Article 138 of this Law, each in proportion to the 
period said worker spent in h is service, provided that the industries or occupations they engage in 
cause the disease the worker suffers from. 
Article 141  
Procedures for reporting work injuries shall be determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Chapter 4: Medical and Social Services 
Article 142  
An employer shall make available one or more medical aid cabinets, supplied with drugs and other 
necessities required for first aid.  
The Regulations shall specify the contents of such cabinets of first aid means, and the number of such 
means and quantities of drugs, and shall also regulate the method of keeping them and the conditions 
and requirements to be met by first aid providers. 
Article 143  
An employer shall assign one or more physicians to provide, at least once a year, a comp rehensive 
medical examination for his workers who are exposed to any of the occupational diseases listed in 
the Schedules of Occupational Diseases provided for in the Social Insurance Law. The findings of 
the examination shall be kept in the employer’s records as well as the workers’ files. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 31 
Article 144  
An employer shall provide his workers with preventive and therapeutic health care in accordance 
with the standards set forth by the Minister, taking into consideration whatever is provided for by the 
Cooperative Health Insurance Law. 
Article 145  
An employer may, subject to the Minister’s approval, set up a savings and thrift fund, provided that 
the workers’ contribution thereto is optional. The provisions regulating the operation of such funds 
shall be made public. 
Article 146  
An employer shall provide at his own expense all or some of the following, as may be determined by 
the Minister, for those who work in remote locations:  
1. Stores for selling food, clothing, and other necessities at moderate prices in places where such 
stores are not available. 
2. Suitable recreational and educational services and sports facilities annexed to the workplace. 
3. Necessary medical arrangements to protect the workers’ health and provide comprehensive 
treatment for their families (Family shall mean the worker’s spouse, and the children and parents 
residing with him). 
4. Schools for the workers’ children in the absence of sufficient schools in the area. 
5. Mosques or prayer areas at the workplace. 
6. Literacy programs for the workers. 
The Regulations shall specify remote locations. 
Article 147  
An employer operating in remote locations, mines, quarries, and oil exploration centers shall provide 
his workers with accommodation, camps, and meals. 
The Minister shall determine, pursuant to a decision by him, the conditions and specifications of the 
accommodation and camps as well as the charges for the accommodation, the number of meals, 
quantities and kinds of food and related conditions, cost of meals to the worker, and any other 
requirements necessary for the workers’ health. 
Article 148  
An employer shall provide means for transporting his workers from their place of residence or from 
a certain gathering point to the places of work and bringing them back daily, if the places of work are 
not served by regular means of transportation at times compatible with the working hours. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 32 
Part 9: Employment of Women 
Article 149 
Taking into consideration the provisions of Article 4 of this Law, women shall work in all fields 
suitable to their nature. It is prohibited to employ women in hazardous jobs or industries. The Minister 
pursuant to a decision by him shall determine the professions and jobs that are deemed detrimental 
to health and are likely to expose women to specific risks; in which cases, women’s employment shall 
be prohibited or restricted under certain terms. 
Article 150  
Women may not work during a period of night the duration of which is not less than 11  consecutive 
hours, except in cases determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article 151 
A female worker shall be entitled to a maternity leave for the four weeks immediately preceding the 
expected date of delivery and the subsequent six weeks. The probable date of delivery shall be 
determined by the physician of the establishment or pursuant to a medical report certified by a health 
authority. A woman may not work during the six weeks immediately following delivery. 
Article 152 
During the maternity leave, an employer shall pay the female worker half her wage if she has been in 
his service for one year or more, and a full wage if she has served for three years or more as of the 
date of commencement of such leave. A female worker shall not be paid any wages during her regular 
annual leave if she has enjoyed in the same year a matern ity leave with full wage. She shall be paid 
half her wage during the annual leave if she has enjoyed in the same year a maternity leave at half 
wage. 
Article 153 
An employer shall provide medical care for female workers during pregnancy and delivery. 
Article 154  
When a female worker returns to work following a maternity leave, she shall be entitled, in addition 
to the rest periods granted to all workers, to a rest period or periods not exceeding in aggregate one 
hour a day for nursing her infant. Such  period or periods shall be calculated as part of the actual 
working hours and shall not entail any reduction in wage. 
Article 155 
An employer may not terminate the employment of a female worker or give her a warning of the 
same while on maternity leave. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 33 
Article 156 
An employer may not terminate the employment of a female worker during illness resulting from 
pregnancy or delivery, and such illness shall be established by a certified medical report, provided 
that the period of her absence does not exceed 180 days. The employment of such female worker may 
not be terminated during the 180 days preceding the expected date of delivery in the absence of one 
of the legitimate causes provided for in this Law. 
Article 157  
A female worker shall forfeit her entitlemen ts under the provisions of this Part if she works for 
another employer during her authorized leave. In this case, the original employer may deprive her of 
her wage for the duration of the leave or recover any payments made to her. 
Article 158  
In all occupations and places where women are employed, the employer shall provide them with seats 
for resting. 
Article 159  
1. An employer who employs 50 female workers or more shall provide them with a suitable place 
with an adequate number of babysitters to look after  the female workers’ children under the age 
of six years, if the number of children reaches 10 or more. 
2. The Minister may require an employer who employs 100 women or more in a single city to set up 
a nursery, either on his own or in conjunction with other employers in the same city, or 
alternatively, to contract with an existing nursery to care for the children of the female workers 
who are under six years of age during work periods. In such case, the Minister shall set forth the 
terms and conditions regula ting such facilities as well as the charges imposed on the female 
workers benefiting from this service. 
Article 160 
A female worker whose husband passes away shall be entitled to a fully paid leave for a minimum 
period of 15 days as of the date of death. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 34 
Part 10: Employment of Minors 
Article 161  
Minors may not be employed in hazardous jobs or harmful industries, or in occupations or jobs that 
may endanger their health, safety, or morals due to the nature or conditions of the same. The Minister 
shall specify such jobs, industries, and occupations pursuant to a decision issued by him. 
Article 162  
1. Any person under the age of 15 years may not be employed or allowed to enter places of work. 
The Minister may, pursuant to a decision by him, raise this age limit in certain industries or areas 
or for certain categories of minors. 
2. As an exception to paragraph (1) of this Article, the Minister may allow the employment or work 
of persons between 13 and 15 years of age in light works, subject to the following conditions: 
2.1 Such jobs shall not be potentially harmful to their health or growth. 
2.2 Such jobs shall not hinder their school attendance or their participation in orientation or 
vocational training programs, or impair their ability to benefit from their schooling.  
Article 163  
Minors may not work during a period of night the duration of wh ich is not less than 12 consecutive 
hours, except in cases determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister. 
Article 164  
Minors may not be made to perform actual work for more than six hours a day for all months except 
for the month of Ramadan when the actual working hours shall not exceed four hours.  
Working hours shall be organized so that a minor does not work for more than four consecutive hours 
without one or more periods, each not less than half an hour, for rest, food, and prayers, provided that 
the minor does not remain at the workplace for more than seven hours. 
Minors may not be made to work during weekly rest days, Eids, official holidays, or annual vacations, 
nor shall they be subject to the exceptions provided for in Article 106 of this Law. 
Article 165  
Prior to employing a minor, the employer shall obtain from him the following documents: 
1. The national identification card or an official birth certificate. 
2. A report of physical fitness for the required job issued by a competent physician and duly certified 
by a health authority. 
3. The consent of the minor’s guardian. 
Said documents shall be kept in the minor’s personal file. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 35 
Article 166  
An employer shall notify the competent labor office of the employment of each minor within the first 
week of such employment, and shall keep at the workplace a register for employed minors, showing 
the name of the minor, his age, the full name of his guardian, his place of residence, and the date of 
his employment. 
Article 167  
The provisions provided for in this Part shall not apply to work undertaken by children and minors in 
schools for general, vocational, or technical education, and in other training institutions, nor shall 
they apply to work undertaken in establishments by persons who are at least 14 years of age if such 
work is performed in accordance with the conditions set forth by the Minister and the work constitutes 
an essential part of the following: 
1. An educational or training course the primary responsibility for which lies with a school or training 
institution. 
2. A training program all or the major part of which is implemented in an establishment if approved 
by the competent authority. 
3. An orientation program aimed at facilitating the selection of the career or type of training. 
Part 11: Marine Employment Contract 
Article 168  
In this Part, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned thereto, unless the context requires 
otherwise: 
Vessel: A floating craft registered in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, whose tonnage is not less than 
500 tons. 
Vessel chandler: A natural person, or public or private establishment for whose account the vessel 
is being rigged. 
Captain: A seafarer qualified to command a vessel and assume responsibility for it. 
Seafarer: A person working aboard a vessel on a marine employment contract. 
Marine employment contract: 
An employment contract for a wage concluded between the vessel's owner or chandler or the 
representative of either of them and a seafarer to work on board said vessel. Suc h contract shall be 
subject to the provisions of this Law, unless they are in conflict with the provisions of this Part and 
the decisions issued hereunder. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 36 
Article 169  
All persons working on a vessel shall be subject to the authority and orders of its captain. 
Article 170  
All employment contracts of seamen working on a vessel shall be entered in the vessel’s records or 
appended thereto. Such contracts shall be drafted in clear language, and shall indicate whether they 
are made for a specific period or for a single voyage. If the contract is made for a specific period, this 
period shall be clearly specified. If it is made for a single voyage, it shall specify the city or harbor 
where the voyage ends, and at what stage of unloading or loading the vessel at this harbor the contract 
terminates. 
Article 171  
A marine employment contract shall provide for the date and place of its conclusion, name of the 
chandler, name of the seafarer, his surname, age, nationality, and homeland, as well as the type of 
assigned work, method of performance, certification for work in sea navigation, personal marine card, 
wage, and the duration of the contract. If the contract is for a single voyage, it shall specify the city 
or harbor where the voyage ends and at what stage during t he unloading or loading of the vessel at 
the harbor the work ends, and other details of the contract.  
Such contract shall be made out in three copies, one copy for the vessel’s chandler, one for the captain, 
to be kept on board the vessel, and a copy for the seafarer. 
Article 172  
Work terms and rules aboard the vessel shall be posted in the crew’s quarters. These terms and rules 
shall include the following: 
1. Seamen’s obligations and duties, organization rules for work aboard the vessel, service timetables, 
and daily working hours.  
2. Obligations of the vessel’s chandler towards the seamen in respect of fixed wages, rewards, and 
other types of wage. 
3. Methods of suspending payment of wages and deductions therefrom and methods of advance 
payments. 
4. Place and time of settlement of wages as well as the final calculation thereof. 
5. Rules and ways for the provision of food and accommodation aboard the vessel. 
6. Treatment of seamen’s illnesses and injuries. 
7. Conduct of seamen and the conditions for their repatriation. 
8. Seamen’s paid annual leaves. 
9. End-of-service award and other indemnities payable upon termination or expiration of the 
employment contract. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 37 
Article 173  
A seafarer shall: 
1. have completed 18 years of age; 
2. hold a certificate allowing him to work in marine service; and 
3. be physically fit. 
Article 174  
All the seafarer’s entitlements shall be paid in the official currency. They may be paid in foreign 
currency if they become due while the vessel is outside territorial waters, subject to the seafarer's 
approval.  
The seafarer may ask the employer to pay his due monetary wage to the person designated by him. 
Article 175  
If the voyage is cut short for any reason, voluntarily or forcibly, this shall not entail a reduction of 
the wage of the seafarer employed on a marine employment contract for a single voyage. 
Article 176  
If the wage is set as a share of the profits or the proceeds of the vessel's charter, the seafarer shall not 
be entitled to compensation if the voyage is cancelled nor to a wage increase if the voyage is delayed 
or extended. If the delay or extension is due to the action of the shippers, the seafarer shall be entitled 
to compensation from the chandler. 
Article 177  
A seafarer shall be eligible for pay, through the day of occurrence, if the ship is captured , sinks, or 
becomes unseaworthy. 
Article 178  
Seamen shall be provided with food and accommodation at the expense of the vessel chandler. This 
shall be regulated by a decision issued by the Minister. 
Article 179  
Working hours aboard the vessel while on hi gh seas shall not exceed 14 hours in a 24 -hour period 
and not more than 72 hours in a seven-day period.  
Article 180  
A seafarer who contributes to aiding or rescuing another vessel is eligible to a share of the reward 
that the vessel on which he works is entitled to, regardless of the type of wage of the work performed. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 38 
Article 181  
If a seafarer dies during the voyage, his heirs shall be eligible to receive his wages through the date 
of his death, if the wage is on a monthly basis. If the wage is on a voy age basis, the heirs shall be 
entitled to the full wage of the voyage, and if the wage is a share of the profits, it shall be fully payable. 
The dues of the deceased or missing seafarer, or who is unable to collect his wage shall be deposited 
with the labor office at the port of destination in the Kingdom. 
Article 182  
An employer may terminate the contract without prior notice and without compensation in the 
following cases: 
1. If the vessel sinks, is confiscated, goes missing, or becomes unseaworthy; or 
2. If the voyage is cancelled at the outset, for reasons beyond the chandler’s control and the wage is 
on the basis of a single voyage, unless the contract provides otherwise. 
Article 183  
If the contract expires or is revoked, the employer shall be obligated to: 
1. return the seafarer to the port of departure at the commencement of the contract; and 
2. provide him with food and accommodation until he reaches that port. 
Article 184  
A chandler shall return the seafarer to his country in the following cases: 
1. If the chandler cancels the voyage after the vessel sails off. 
2. If the voyage is cancelled after the vessel sails off on account of prohibition of trading with the 
destination. 
3. If the seafarer is removed from the vessel due to illness, injury, or disability. 
4. If the vessel is sold in a foreign country. 
5. If the seafarer is dismissed from service during the voyage without a legitimate justification. 
6. If the contract concluded with the seafarer expires at a port other than the one provided for in the 
contract. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 39 
Part 12: Working in Mines and Quarries 
Article 185  
Working in mines and quarries shall mean the following: 
1. Operations involving prospecting, detecting, extracting, or manufacturing (solid or liquid) mineral 
substances, including precious stones, in the area for which the license was issued. 
2. Operations involving extracting, concentrating, or manufacturing mineral sediments on the surface 
or under the ground in the area of the license. 
3. Construction works and the installation of structures and equipment related to t he operations 
referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article. 
Article 186 
No person under the age of 18 or any woman regardless of her age shall be employed in a mine or 
quarry. 
Article 187  
No person shall be allowed to engage in operations subject  to the provisions of this Part until he 
undergoes a complete medical examination and is proven to be physically fit for the required work. 
Such examination shall be repeated periodically. The worker may not be required to bear the costs of 
necessary medical examinations. The Minister shall set forth, pursuant to a decision by him, the terms, 
conditions, and periods that must be complied with. 
Article 188  
The actual working hours spent by the worker underground shall not exceed seven hours a day. No 
worker shall be kept at the workplace, above or below the ground, for more than 10 hours a day. If 
the work is conducted underground, such a period shall include the time needed for the worker to 
reach underground and the time needed to return to the surface. 
Article 189  
Access to the work location and facilities shall be restricted to workers therein, persons authorized to 
inspect the mine or quarry, and persons holding special permits from the competent authority. 
Article 190  
An employer shall keep a record to register and count the workers before they enter the workplace 
and as they exit therefrom. 
Article 191  
An employer or the manager in -charge shall draft a list of orders and instructions related to public 
safety. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 40 
Article 192  
An employer shall establish a rescue point in the vicinity of the workplace, equipped with necessary 
rescue and first aid equipment. Said point shall be equipped with suitable means of communication 
for immediate access, and the employer shall appoint a trained technician to supervi se rescue and 
first aid operations. 
Article 193  
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 142 of this Law, the employer of each mine or quarry 
with at least 50 workers shall set up a suitable location with a room equipped with rescue and first 
aid equipment, another room for nursing, and one or more locker rooms. As for quarries and mines 
with less than 50 workers and which are located within a twenty -kilometer radius of each other, 
employers may pool their resources to establish a place of rescue and  first aid in between such 
quarries and mines, or else establish their own places of rescue and first aid.  
The Minister may determine the rescue and first aid equipment and the protection and prevention 
measures in mines and quarries as well as employers’ responsibilities and workers’ rights and duties. 
Part 13: Work Inspection 
Article 194 
Work inspection shall be undertaken by competent inspectors to be named pursuant to a decision by 
the Minister. They shall have the powers and authorities provided for in this Law. 
Article 195  
In addition to the general conditions for appointing employees, a work inspector shall satisfy the 
following requirements when performing his duties: 
1. Total impartiality. 
2. Absence of any direct or indirect relation with the establishments he inspects. 
3. Passing a conduct examination following completion of a training period of at least 90 days. 
Article 196 
Work inspectors shall undertake the following: 
1. Monitoring the proper implementation of the provisions of the Labor Law and its implementing 
regulations and decisions. 
2. Furnishing employers and workers with technical information and guidelines that enable them to 
follow the best means for implementing the provisions of the Law. 
3. Notifying the competent authorities of the shortcomings  of existing provisions, and submitting 
relevant proposals. 
4. Recording violations of the provisions of the Labor Law and its implementing decisions. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 41 
Article 197  
Before assuming their official duties, work inspectors shall take an oath before the Minister  to 
discharge their duties honestly and sincerely, and not disclose the secrets of any industrial invention 
or any other secrets which may come to their knowledge by reason of their offices, even after leaving 
such offices. A work inspector shall carry an identification card issued by the Ministry. 
Article 198  
Work inspectors shall have the right to the following: 
1. Access any establishment that is subject to the provisions of the Labor Law at any time, day or 
night, without prior notice. 
2. Perform any examination or investigation required to ascertain the proper implementation of the 
Law. They may in particular: 
a) Question the employer, his representative, or the workers in private or in the presence of 
witnesses about any matter relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Law. 
b) Review all books, records, and other documents that must be kept pursuant to the provisions of 
this Law and relevant decisions, and obtain any copies or extracts therefrom. 
c) Take samples of the materials used or handled i n industrial and other operations subject to 
inspection and believed to have a harmful effect on the health or safety of workers, for the 
purpose of analyzing such samples in government laboratories to determine the extent of such 
effect, and duly notify the employer or his representative of the same. 
Article 199  
Employers and their agents shall facilitate for the inspectors and officials entrusted with work 
inspection the performance of their duties. They shall provide them with the required information 
relevant to the nature of their work, respond to requests to appear before them, and dispatch a 
representative when asked. 
Article 200  
A person conducting inspection shall notify the employer or his representative of his visit except 
where he believes that the task for which the inspection is being made requires otherwise. 
Article 201  
A work inspector may instruct employers to amend the rules for operating their equipment and 
machinery at deadlines he specifies, to ensure compliance with the provisions pertaining to workers’ 
health and safety. In the event of a hazard threatening the workers’ health and safety, the inspector 
may request the immediate implementation of the measures he deems necessary to prevent such 
hazard. 
Article 202  
A work inspector shall treat with absolute secrecy the complaints he receives regarding any shortage 
in equipment or any violation of the provisions of the Law, and he shall not disclose to the employer 
or his representative the existence of such complaints. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 42 
Article 203 
If, in the course of inspection, the inspector concludes the existence of a violation of the provisions 
of this Law or of any decisions issued hereunder, he shall, provide advice to the employer on how to 
avoid such violation, serve the employer with a verbal n otice or a written warning to rectify the 
violation within a certain period or else draft a report recording the violation, depending on the 
seriousness of the violation and the other circumstances that are left to his discretion. 
Article 204  
Whenever the need arises, physicians, engineers, chemists, and specialists in occupational health and 
safety shall participate in the inspection. If necessary, the director of the labor office and inspectors 
may request the competent executive bodies to extend the required assistance. 
Article 205  
The work inspection chief at the labor office shall prepare a monthly report on work inspection 
activities, the aspects of inspection, inspected establishments, the number and type of violations 
committed, and the actions taken with respect thereto. He shall also prepare an annual report on the 
inspection undertaken within the jurisdiction of the labor office, and its findings and effects, and he 
shall include therein his comments and proposals. Copies of both reports shall  be submitted to the 
Ministry. 
Article 206  
The Deputy Minister for Labor Affairs shall prepare, within a period not exceeding 180 days from 
the end of the year, a comprehensive annual report on work inspection in the Kingdom, addressing 
all matters relating to the Ministry’s monitoring of the implementation of the provisions of the Labor 
Law.  
In particular, the report shall include the following: 
1. A statement of the provisions regulating inspection. 
2. A list of the officials in charge of inspection. 
3. Statistics on the establishments subject to inspection and the number of workers therein. 
4. Statistics on inspectors’ visits and inspections. 
5. Statistics on the violations committed and the penalties imposed. 
6. Statistics on work injuries. 
7. Statistics on occupational diseases. 
Article 207  
The Ministry shall prepare forms for recording violations, inspection records, notices, and warnings, 
and shall establish the provisions necessary for the filing and use of such forms and for their 
distribution to labor offices. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 43 
Article 208  
Training courses shall be organized for work inspectors, and shall in particular include the following: 
1. Principles for organizing inspection visits and communicating with employers and workers. 
2. Principles for auditing books, records, and compu ters, as well as principles for organizing 
inspection reports and interrogating persons. 
3. Principles for guiding employers on the requirements of statutory provisions and the benefits of 
their application, and assisting them in such application. 
4. Fundamental principles of industrial technology and the means of protection against work injuries 
and occupational diseases. 
5. Fundamental principles of production efficiency and its relevance to providing conditions 
conducive to a proper work environment. 
Article 209  
The Council of Ministers shall issue the Implementing Regulations necessary for governing and 
regulating inspection activities as provided for in this Part. 
Part 14: Commissions for Settlement of Labor Disputes 
Article 210  
Commissions for settlement of labor disputes are:  
1. The Preliminary Commissions for Settlement of Disputes 
2. The High Commission for Settlement of Disputes 
Article 211  
Pursuant to a decision by the Minister and following the approval of the President of the Council of 
Ministers, members of the preliminary commissions shall be named from among holders of degrees 
in Sharia or law. 
Article 212   
Based on a decision by the Minister, a preliminary commission comprising one or more one-member 
circuits shall be formed in each labor office speci fied by the Minister. Each of these circuits shall 
decide the cases referred to it. If the commission comprises more than one circuit, the Minister shall 
name a head from among the members, who shall, in addition to his duties, assign cases to 
commission members and organize administrative and clerical work.  
Article 213  
If no preliminary commission is formed in a labor office, the Minister shall, when necessary, delegate 
the commission formed at the nearest labor office with the duties and jurisdictions of the commission 
which has not been formed. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 44 
Article 214  
The preliminary commission shall have jurisdiction to: 
1. Render final decisions on: 
1.1 Labor disputes, irrespective of their type, the value of which does not exceed 10,000 riyals. 
1.2 Objections to the penalties imposed by employers upon workers. 
1.3 Imposing the punishments provided for in this Law for a violation the punishment of which 
does not exceed 5,000 riyals and violations with a combined punishment not exceeding 5,000 
riyals.  
2. Render preliminary decisions on: 
2.1 Labor disputes the value of which exceeds 10,000 riyals. 
2.2 Disputes over compensation for work injuries, irrespective of the amount of the compensation. 
2.3 Disputes over termination of service. 
2.4 Imposing the punishments provided for in this Law for a  violation the punishment of which 
exceeds 5,000 riyals and violations with a combined punishment exceeding 5,000 riyals. 
2.5 Imposing punishments on violations punishable by fines and consequential punishments. 
Article 215  
The High Commission for Settlement of Disputes shall be composed of several circuits, each 
comprising of not less than three members. The chairman and members of the commission who shall 
be holders of degrees in Sharia and law with expertise in labor disputes shall be named pursuant to a 
decision of the Council of Ministers, based on a nomination by the Minister. A decision by the 
Minister, based on the recommendation of the Chairman of the Commission, shall specify the number 
of circuits of the High Commission and their venue jurisdiction. The Chairman of the Commission 
shall select the heads of the circuits, assign the duties of each, and supervise all the administrative 
functions of the circuits. 
Article 216  
Each of the circuits of the High Commission shall have jurisdiction to decide finally and definitively 
on all appeals brought before it against decisions of the circuits of preliminary commissions. 
Article 217  
Decisions may be appealed within 30 days from the date of utterance of the preliminary circuit’s 
decisions made in the presenc e of the concerned parties and from the date of notification in other 
cases. 
Article 218  
If the decision of the preliminary circuit is not appealed within the period specified in the previous 
Article, the decision shall be deemed final and enforceable. Al l decisions of the circuits of the High 
Commission shall be deemed enforceable from the date of their issuance. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 45 
Article 219  
Each of these commissions shall solely have the exclusive right to consider all disputes relating to 
this Law and the disputes arising from employment contracts. It may summon any person for 
interrogation or assign one of its members to conduct such interr ogation. It may also require the 
submission of documents and evidence and take any other measures it may deem fit. The commission 
shall also have the right to access any premises of the establishment for the purpose of conducting an 
investigation and reviewing all the books, records, and documents it deems necessary. 
Article 220  
Cases shall be filed through the competent labor office with the preliminary commissions in whose 
locality or under whose jurisdiction the place of work falls. Prior to referring  the dispute to the 
commission, the labor office shall take the necessary measures to settle the dispute amicably. The 
Minister shall issue a decision setting forth relevant procedures and rules.  
Article 221  
Cases arising from the provisions of this Law shall be reviewed promptly. 
Article 222  
1. No case shall be accepted by the commissions provided for in this Law involving a claim of the 
rights provided for in this Law or arising from an employment contract after 12 months have 
elapsed after the termination of the employment relation.  
2. No case involving a claim of the rights provided for in the previous Labor Law shall be accepted 
after 12 months have elapsed following the effective date of this Law. 
3. No complaints regarding violations of the provisions of this Law or the regulations and decisions 
issued hereunder shall be accepted after 12 months have elapsed following the date of the 
occurrence of the violation. 
Article 223  
None of the commissions provided for in this Part may abstain from rendering its decision on the 
pretext of the absence of applicable provisions in this Law. In such case, the commissions shall resort 
to the principles of Sharia, established judicial precedents, norms, and the principles of justice. 
Article 224  
Parties to an employment contract may incorporate a clause in the employment contract providing 
for the settlement of disputes through arbitration, or said parties may agree to do so after a dispute 
arises. In all cases, the provisions of the Arbitration Law and its Implementing Regulations in force 
in the Kingdom shall apply. 
Article 225  
Neither of the disputing parties may bring the dispute, upon which a final decision has been rendered 
by one of the commissions provided for in this Part, before this Commission or other judicial bodies. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 46 
Article 226  
During the reconciliation or arbitration proceedings or while the case is under review before one of 
the commissions provided for in this Part, the employer may not change the terms of employment 
applicable before the initiation of the proceedings in a way that would cause harm to the worker.  
Article 227  
The Commission may order the losing party to pay the other party all or part of the costs incurred by 
him. 
Article 228  
The Council of Ministers shall issue the regulations for litigation before the commissions for 
settlement of labor disputes. 
Part 15: Punishments 
Article 229 
The punishments provided for in this Part shall apply in the absence of harsher punishments provided 
for in any other laws. 
Article 230  
A fine of not less than 3,000 riyals and not more than 10,000 riyals shall be imposed on any person 
who violates any of the provisions related to the vocational preparation of Saudi workers to replace 
others, as provided for in this Law and the decisions issued hereunder. 
Article 231 
Violators of the provisions of Articles 16, 25, 33, 37, and 38 of this Law shall be subject to a fine of 
not less than 2,000 riyals and not more than 5,000 riyals. The fine shall be multiplied by the number 
of workers subject of the violation. 
Article 232 
Violators of the provision of Article 30 of this Law shall be subject to a fine of not less than 10,000 
riyals and not more than 30,000 riyals. 
Article 233 
Violators of the provision of Article 39 of this Law shall be subject to a fine of not less than 5,000 
riyals and not more than 20,00 0 riyals, and the fine shall be multiplied by the number of persons 
subject of the violation. The worker shall be repatriated at the expense of the person who employs 
him. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 47 
Article 234 
An employer or any person responsible for violation of the provisions of Chapters 2, 3, and 4 of Part 
6 of this Law, or any decisions issued hereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than 2,000 riyals 
and not exceeding 5,000 riyals for each violation. 
Article 235 
An employer who violates the provision of Article 90 of this Law shall be subject to a fine of not less 
than 500 riyals and not more than 3,000 riyals. The fine shall be multiplied by the number of the 
workers subject of the violation. 
Article 236 
Any person who violates the provisions of Chapters 1 and 2 of Part 8 of this Law and the rules issued 
in accordance with the provision of Article 121 of this Law shall be subject to a fine of not less than 
3,000 riyals and not more than 10,000 riyals for each violation or closing down the establishment for 
not more than 30 days or permanently. The fine and the closing down may be combined along with 
the elimination of the source of the hazard. 
Article 237 
Without prejudice to the punishment provided for i n other laws applicable to those who obstruct an 
official in the course of his duties, violators of the provisions of Article 199 of this Law shall be 
subject to a fine of not less than 5,000 riyals and not more than 10,000 riyals. 
Article 238 
Any employer, project manager or worker who refuses or delays execution of an arbitration award or 
a final decision rendered by any of the labor dispute settlement commissions shall be subject to a fine 
of not less than 10,000 riyals and not more than 30,000 riyals. 
Article 239 
A violator of any of the provisions of this Law and the regulations and decisions issued hereunder 
shall be subject to a fine of not less than 2,000 riyals and not more than 5,000 riyals, for punishments 
not provided for herein. 
Article 240 
If the violation is repeated within 90 days or the violator fails to correct it within the specified period, 
the fine shall be doubled. 
Article 241 
In all cases, the violator may pay the maximum prescribed fine as provided for in this Part without 
resorting to the Commission for Settlement of Labor Disputes. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 48 
Article 242 
Proceeds of fines collected on account of violations of the provisions of this Law and the regulations 
and decisions issued hereunder shall eventually be deposited with the Human Resources 
Development Fund. 
Part 16: Concluding Provisions 
Article 243  
The Minister shall issue, within 180 days from this Law’s entry into force, the decisions and 
regulations necessary for implementing the provisions thereof. The Implementing Regulations shall 
be published in the Official Gazette. 
Article 244  
This Law shall supersede the Labor and Workers’ Law promulgated by Royal Decree No. M/21 dated 
6/9/1389H and shall repeal all the provisions that are inconsistent therewith. Regulations and 
decisions issued prior to the effective date of this Law shall remain in effect until they are amended. 
Article 245  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 180 days after the date 
of its publication.  
  
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 49 
Appendix 
Amendments 
March 24, 2013 (Jumada I 12, 1434H) 
Royal Decree No. M/24 provides for the following: 
 Amending Article 39 to read as follows: 
"Article 39: 
1. Unless he has followed the stipulated legal rules and procedures, an employer may not allow 
his worker to work for others, and a worker may not work for other employers. Similarly, an 
employer may not employ the workers of other employers. The Ministry of Labor shall inspect 
establishments, investigate violations of this paragraph detected by its inspectors, and refer 
them to the Ministry of Interior for the imposition of prescribed penalties.  
2. An employer may not allow a worker to work for his own account and a worker may not 
work for his own account. The Ministry of Interior shall be in charge of detection, detention, 
deportation, and imposition of penalties on violators working for their own account in streets 
and squares, as well as absconding wo rkers and persons employing, hiding, or transporting 
them as well as any person involved in such violation, and shall impose the prescribed penalties 
against them". 
 Repealing Article 233. 
November 25, 2013 (Muharram 22, 1435H) 
Royal Decree No. M/1 provides for the following: 
 Repealing Part 14, entitled " Commissions for Settlement of Labor Disputes", and replacing the 
phrase "the Commission for the Settlement of Labor Disputes or the Commissions for the 
Settlement of Labor Disputes" with the phrase "Labor Court or Labor Courts" as the case may 
be wherever mentioned in other parts. This shall be effective as of the establishment of labor 
courts and the exercising of their jurisdiction. 
March 25, 2015 (Jumada II 5, 1436H) 
Royal Decree No. M/46 provides for the following: 
 Amending Article 5 to read as follows: 
"The provisions of this Law shall apply to the following: 
1. Any contract whereby a person commits himself to work for an employer and under his 
management or supervision, for a wage. 
2. Workers of the government and public organizations and institutions including those who 
work in pastures or agriculture. 
3. Workers of charitable institutions. 
4. Qualification and training contracts with workers other than those working for the employer 
within the limits of the relevant provisions provided for in this Law. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 50 
5. Part-time workers with respect to safety, occupational health, and work injuries, as well as 
decisions issued by the Minister". 
 Amending Article 7 to read as follows: 
"1. The following shall be exempted from the implementation of the provisions of this Law: 
a) The employer's family members, namely, the spouse and the ascendants and descendants 
who constitute the only workers of the establishment. 
b) Players and coaches of sports clubs and federations. 
c) Domestic workers and the like. 
d) Agricultural workers, private herdsmen, and the like. 
e) Sea workers working on board vessels with a load of less than 500 tons.  
f) Non-Saudi workers entering the Kingdom to perform a specific task for a period not 
exceeding two months". 
2. The Minister shall issue, in coordination with relevant agencies, one or more regulations for 
the categories set out in subparagraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of paragraph (1) of this 
Article, containing the rights, obligations, and other special prov isions related to each 
category. 
 Amending Article 11 to read as follows: 
"If the employer assigns all or part of his original work to a natural or corporate person, the 
latter shall give his workers all the rights and privileges which the original employer  gives to 
his workers". 
 Adding a new article to be numbered "Article 11 bis" to read as follows: 
"Without prejudice to the provisions of this Law and relevant regulations, the Minister may 
take any measures that would improve the performance of the labor m arket and regulate labor 
mobility". 
 Amending Articles 12, 13, and 14 and combining them into two articles to read as follows: 
"Article 12 
1. The Ministry shall develop one or more model bylaws which shall include rules and 
regulations related to the conduct of work. It shall also include provisions relating to benefits, 
violations, and disciplinary actions. 
2. The Ministry shall set rules regulating the adoption of bylaws. 
Article 13 
1. Every employer shall draft bylaws for his establishment in line with the Mini stry’s model 
bylaws. Exceptions to this provision may be granted by the Minister.  
2. The employer may incorporate into the bylaws additional terms and conditions that do not 
conflict with the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and the decisions for the  
implementation thereof. 
3. The employer shall make the bylaws and any amendments thereto accessible to employees 
in a manner that ensures their knowledge of the provisions".  
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 51 
 Amending Article 35 to read as follows: 
"The Ministry may decline to renew the work  permit if the employer violates the Saudization 
requirements set by the Ministry". 
 Amending Article 43 to read as follows: 
"Without prejudice to the conditions set forth in franchise and other agreements regarding 
training and qualification, every employer employing 50 or more workers shall annually train, 
in his business, a number of his Saudi workers not less than 12%  of the total number of his 
workers. This percentage shall include Saudi workers who are pursuing their studies if the 
employer is c overing their tuition fees. The Minster may raise this percentage in certain 
establishments pursuant to a decision by him". 
 Amending Article 48 to read as follows: 
"1. The employer may terminate the training contract if it is established that the trainee  is 
incapable of completing the training program. The trainee or his guardian shall be entitled 
to the same. The party seeking to terminate the contract shall notify the other party of this at 
least one week prior to the date of termination of training. 
2. Following completion of training, the employer shall be entitled to require the trainee to work 
for him for a period equivalent to that of the training. If the trainee refuses to work for a 
similar period or part thereof, he shall pay to the employer the cost of training incurred by 
the employer or the cost of the remaining period". 
 Amending Article 52 to read as follows: 
"1. Subject to the provisions of Article 37 of this Law, the Ministry shall create a model 
employment contract, which shall primarily include the name and place of the employer; the 
name and nationality of the worker; proof of identity; place of residence; agreed upon wage, 
including benefits and allowances; type and location of work; date of employment; and 
duration of the contract if fixed. 
2. The employment contract shall be in accordance with the model contract referred to in 
paragraph (1) of this Article. The parties to the contract may add other items not conflicting 
with the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and relevant decisions". 
 Amending Article 53 to read as follows: 
"If the worker is subject to a probation period, the same shall be expressly stated and clearly 
indicated in the employment contract, provided that such probation period shall not exceed 90 
days, exclusive of Eid Al-Fitr and Eid Al-Adha holidays and sick leaves. The probation period 
may be extended by written agreement between the worker and the employer, provided that it 
shall not exceed 180 days. Each party shall have the right to terminate the contract du ring this 
period, unless the contract contains a provision giving the right to terminate the contract to only 
one of them". 
 Amending Article 54 to read as follows: 
"A worker may not be placed on probation more than once by the same employer. As an 
exception, the worker may, with the approval of contract parties, in writing, be subjected to 
another probation period provided that such period involves another profession or work, or if 
no less than six months have elapsed since the termination of the work relationship between the 
worker and the employer. If the contract is terminated during the probation period, neither party 
shall be entitled to compensation nor shall the worker be entitled to an end-of-service award". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 52 
 Amending Article 55 to read as follows: 
"1. A fixed-term employment contract shall terminate upon expiration of its term. If the two 
parties continue to implement it, the contract shall be deemed to have been renewed for an 
indefinite period of time, subject to the provisions of Article 37 of th is Law for non-Saudi 
workers. 
2. If a fixed -term contract contains a clause providing for its renewal for a similar term or a 
specified term, the contract shall be renewed for the agreed upon period. If the contract is 
renewed for three consecutive terms, or if the original contract term and the renewal period 
amount to four years, whichever is less, and the parties continue to implement it, the contract 
shall become an indefinite term contract". 
 Amending Article 58 to read as follows: 
"1. The employer may not relocate the worker from his original place of work to another place 
that requires a change in place of residence without his written consent. 
2. The employer may, in exigent circumstances and for a period not exceeding 30 days per year, 
assign the wor ker without his consent to a different location, provided that the employer 
bears the costs of the worker’s transport and residence during such period". 
 Amending Article 64 to read as follows: 
"Upon expiration of the employment contract, the employer shall be required to: 
1. Give the worker, upon his request, a certificate of work experience free of charge, stating 
the date of commencing work, date of the end of the relationship with them, profession, and 
amount of the last salary. The employer may not include  in the certificate any remark that 
would undermine the reputation of the worker or his chances of future employment. 
2. Return to the worker all certificates or documents he had deposited with the employer". 
 Amending Article 73 to read as follows: 
"The employer must keep a special record of the fines imposed on the worker, stating the name 
of the worker, his wage, the amount of the fine, the cause for imposing the fine, and the date of 
the fine. Fines may only be disbursed by the labor committee at the establishment for the benefit 
of the workers of the establishment. In the absence of such committee, disbursement of the 
fines shall be subject to the Ministry’s approval". 
 Amending Article 74 to read as follows: 
"The employment contract shall terminate in any of the following cases: 
1. If both parties agree to terminate it, provided that the worker’s consent be in writing. 
2. If the term specified in the contract expires, unless the contract has been explicitly renewed 
in accordance with the provisions of this Law. In such case, it shall remain in force until the 
expiry of its term. 
3. At the discretion of either party in indefinite term c ontracts, as stated in Article 75  of this 
Law. 
4. When the worker reaches the age of retirement, which is 60 years for male workers and 55 
years for female workers, unless the parties agree on continuing the work beyond this age. 
The retirement age may be lowered in cases of early retirement provided for in the bylaws. 
If it is a fixed -term contract, and its term extends beyond the r etirement age, the contract 
shall terminate at the end of its term. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 53 
5. Force majeure. 
6. Permanent closure of the establishment. 
7. Termination of the line of business for which the worker is employed, unless agreed 
otherwise.  
8. Any other case provided by any other law". 
 Amending Article 75 to read as follows: 
"If the contract is of an indefinite term, either party may terminate it for a valid reason to be 
specified in a written notice served to the other party prior to the termination date as specified 
in the contract, provided that such period is not less than 60 days if the worker’s wage is paid 
monthly, and not less than 30 days for non-monthly wages". 
 Amending Article 76 to read as follows: 
"If the party terminating an indefinite term contract fails to observe the notice period specified 
in accordance with Article 75 of this Law, such party shall be required to pay the other party a 
compensation equal to the worker’s pay for the duration of the notice period, unless the two 
parties agree on a greater compensation". 
 Amending Article 77 to read as follows: 
"Unless the contract includes specific compensation for the termination by either party for an 
invalid reason, the party affected by termination shall be entitled to compensation as follows: 
1. For indefinite term contracts: an amount equivalent to fifteen-day wage for each year of the 
worker’s employment. 
2. For fixed-term contracts: the wage for the remainder of the contract term. 
3. The compensation referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article shall not be less than 
the worker’s wage for two months". 
 Repealing the provision of Article 78 and replacing it with the following: 
"If notice is made by the employer, the worker shall be entitled to a paid leave of absence of a 
full day or eight hours per week, to seek other employment. The worker shall be entitled to 
determine the time of the leave of absence, provided that the employer is notified at least one 
day in advance. The employer may relieve the worker from attending work during the notice 
period without affecting the worker’s term of service or entitlements for such period". 
 Amending Article 80 to read as follows: 
"An employer may not terminate the contract without giving the worker an award, advance 
notice, or indemnity except in the following cases, and  provided that he gives the worker a 
chance to state his reasons for objecting to the termination: 
1. If, during or by reason of the work, the worker assaults the employer, the manager in-charge, 
or any of his superiors. 
2. If the worker fails to perform his main obligations arising from the employment contract, or 
fails to obey legitimate orders, or if, in spite of written warnings, he deliberately fails to 
observe instructions related to the safety of work and workers which have been posted by 
the employer in a visible place. 
3. If it is established that the worker has committed a misconduct or an act infringing on 
honesty or integrity. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 54 
4. If the worker deliberately commits or omits any act with the intent to cause material loss to 
the employer, provided that the empl oyer reports the incident to the competent authorities 
within 24 hours after becoming aware of its occurrence. 
5. If it is established that the worker has committed forgery to obtain the job. 
6. During the probation period. 
7. If the worker is absent without a valid reason for more than 30 days in one contractual year 
or for more than 15 consecutive days, provided that the dismissal is preceded by a written 
warning from the employer to the worker if the latter is absent for 20 days in the first case 
and for 10 days in the second. 
8. If it is established that the worker has unlawfully taken advantage of his position for personal 
gain.  
9. If it is established that the worker has disclosed trade secrets". 
 Amending Article 83 to read as follows: 
"1. If the work assigned to the worker allows him to get acquainted with the employer’s clients, 
the employer may, for the protection of his legitimate interests, require the worker not to 
compete with him upon termination of the contract. For this condition to be valid, it shall be 
in writing and specific, in terms of time, place, and type of work. The validity of such 
condition shall not exceed two years from the date of termination of the relationship between 
the two parties. 
2. If the work assigned to the worker allows him to ha ve access to the employer’s business 
secrets, the employer may, for the protection of his legitimate interests, require the worker 
not to disclose such secrets upon termination of the contract. For this condition to be valid, 
it shall be in writing and specific, in terms of time, place, and type of work. 
3. As an exception to the provisions of this Law, the employer may file a suit within one year 
from the date of discovery of the worker’s violation of any of his obligations pursuant to this 
Article". 
 Amending Article 90 to read as follows: 
"1. The worker’s wage and all other dues shall be paid in the local currency in accordance with 
the following: 
a) Workers paid on a daily basis shall be paid at least once a week. 
b) Workers paid on a monthly basis shall be paid once a month. 
c) If the work is done by piece and requires a period of more than two weeks, the worker 
shall receive a payment each week commensurate with the completed portion of the work. 
The balance of the wage shall be paid in full during the week following delivery of  the 
work.  
d) In cases other than the above, worker’s wages shall be paid at least once a week. 
2. Establishments shall be required to deposit workers’ wages into their bank accounts through 
approved banks in the Kingdom, provided that their due date does not exceed the deadlines 
referred to above. The Minister may exempt some establishments from such requirement". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 55 
 Amending Article 101 to read as follows: 
"Working hours and rest periods during the day shall be scheduled so that no worker shall work 
for more than five consecutive hours without a break of no less than thirty minutes each time 
during the total working hours for rest, prayer and meals, provided that a worker does not 
remain at the workplace for more than 12 hours a day". 
 Amending Article 113 to read as follows: 
"Taking into account female workers’ leaves as provided for under this Law, a worker shall be 
entitled to a five-day leave with full pay in the event of the death of a spouse or an ascendant 
or descendant, or marriage, and a three-day paid leave in the case of childbirth. In all cases, the 
employer shall have the right to request supporting documents". 
 Amending Article 115 to read as follows: 
"1. If an employer approves of a worker’s enrollment or continuance in an educational 
institution, he shall have the right to a leave with full pay to sit for an examination for an 
unrepeated year, the duration of which shall be based on the actual number of examination 
days. If the examination is for a repeat year, the worker shall have the right to a leave without 
pay based on the number of actual examination days. Without prejudice to the employer’s 
right to disciplinary action, the worker shall be denied the wage if it is established that he 
did not sit for the examination. 
2. If a worke r does not obtain the employer’s approval on his enrollment in an educational 
institution, the worker shall be entitled to a leave to sit for the examination based on the 
actual number of examination days which shall be considered part of his annual leave,  if 
available. If this is not possible, the worker shall be entitled to a leave without pay for the 
actual number of examination days. 
3. The worker shall apply for the leave at least 15 days in advance. 
4. The employer may require the worker to submit documents supporting the leave application, 
as well as proof of having taken the examination". 
 Amending Article 137 to read as follows: 
"In the case of temporary disability arising from a work injury, the injured party shall be entitled 
to financial aid equal to his full wage for 60 days, then 75% of the wage for the entire duration 
of his treatment. If one year elapses, or it is medically determined that the injured party’s 
chances of recovery are improbable or that he is not physically fit to work, his injur y shall be 
deemed a total disability. In this case, the contract shall be terminated and the worker shall be 
compensated for the injury. The employer shall not be entitled to recover payments made to the 
injured worker during that year". 
 Amending Article 149 to read as follows: 
"It is prohibited to employ women in hazardous or dangerous professions and jobs. The 
Minister, pursuant to a decision by him, shall determine the professions and jobs that are 
deemed dangerous or hazardous and are likely to expose w omen to specific risks or harm. In 
such cases, women’s employment shall be prohibited or subject to certain restrictions". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 56 
 Amending Article 151 and 152 and combining them into a single article to read as follows: 
"Article 151  
1. Female workers shall be entitled to fully paid maternity leave for a period of 10 weeks to be 
divided at the female worker’s discretion. Such period may start four weeks prior to the 
expected date of delivery. Expected date of delivery shall be determined pursuant to a 
medical report certified by a health authority. 
2. A woman may not, under any circumstances, work during the six weeks immediately 
following delivery. She shall be entitled to extend the leave for an additional month as unpaid 
leave. 
3. In the event of giving birth to a sick child or a child with special needs whose health condition 
requires a constant companion, a female worker shall be entitled to a one-month leave with 
full pay starting at the end of the maternity leave and she shall be entitled to extend the leave 
for an additional month as unpaid leave". 
 Amending Article 160 to read as follows: 
"1. A Muslim female worker whose husband dies shall be entitled to ‘iddah leave’ with full pay 
for a period of not less than four months and 10 days starting from date of death. If she is 
pregnant, such leave may be extended without pay until her delivery. She may not, following 
childbirth, use the remainder of the leave granted to her under this Law. 
2. A non-Muslim female worker whose husband dies shall be entitled to a fifteen -day leave 
with full pay. 
In all cases, a female worker whose husband dies may not work for others during the leave 
period. 
The employer shall have the right to request supporting documents in the abovementioned 
cases". 
 Amending Article 194 to read as follows: 
"Work inspection shall be carried out by inspectors appointed from among the Ministry’s staff 
or other Saudis pursuant to a decision by the Minister or his designee. They shall have the 
powers provided for in this Law". 
 Amending Article 196 to read as follows: 
"Work inspectors shall undertake the following: 
1. Monitoring implementation of the provisions of this Law, its Implementing Regulations, and 
the decisions issued in implementation thereof. 
2. Providing employers and workers with technical information and instructions that enable 
them to follow the best methods for implementing the provisions of this Law. 
3. Reporting to the competent authorities the shortcomings of existing provisions, and 
submitting relevant proposals. 
4. Reporting violations of the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and the decisions issued 
in implementation thereof. 
5. Investigating violations which have been detected and recorded by other competent 
government agencies and referred to the Ministry.  
6. Proposing appropriate fines in accordance with the Violations and Penalties Table". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 57 
 Amending Article 197 to read as follows: 
"Before assuming their duties, inspectors shall sign a pledge form prepared by the Ministry, 
affirming their commitment to carry out their duties with honesty and dedication, and not to 
disclose the secrets of any industrial invention or any other secrets which they may become 
privy to in the course of performing their duties. An inspector shall carry an inspector 
identification card issued by the Ministry". 
 Amending Article 203 to read as follows: 
"If, during inspection, the inspector discovers the  presence of a violation of the provisions of 
this Law, the Regulations, or the decisions issued in implementation thereof, he shall record the 
violation in accordance with the provisions provided for in the Implementing Regulations for 
inspection and submit the violation report to the Minister for a decision". 
 Amending Articles 229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239, and 241 and 
combining them into two articles to read as follows: 
"Article 229 
1. Without prejudice to any harsher penalty provided for in any other law, any person infringing 
upon any of the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, or the decisions issued in 
implementation thereof shall be subject to one or more of the following penalties: 
a) A fine not exceeding 100,000 riyals. 
b) Closure of the establishment for a period not exceeding 30 days. 
c) Permanent closure of the establishment. 
2. The penalty imposed on the violator may be doubled in the case of repetition. 
3. Fines shall be multiplied by the number of persons subject of the violation". 
Article 230 
1. The Ministry may, pursuant to a decision by the Minister or his designee, impose both or 
either of the two penalties provided for in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1) of 
Article 229 of this Law, provided that half of the maximum limit set for each of them is not 
exceeded. The penalty decision may be appealed before the competent administrative court. 
2. Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, a table shall be issued listing violations and the 
corresponding penalties that do not exceed half of the maximum limit of the two penalties 
provided for in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1) of Article 229 of this Law, taking 
into account that the fine shall be commensurate with the gravity of the violation. 
3. Pursuant to a decision by the Minister, a table shall be issued listing violations whose 
penalties exceed half of the maximum limit of the two penalties provided for in 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (1) of Article 229 of this Law. Such table sha ll also 
list violations whose penalties are provided for in subparagraph (c) of paragraph (1) of 
Article 229. 
4. If the violation warrants a penalty that exceeds half of the prescribed maximum limit, or if it 
warrants the permanent closure of the establishment, in accordance with the table provided 
for in paragraph (3) of this Article, the Ministry shall file a suit before the competent court 
to review the case and impose the appropriate penalty provided for in Article 229 of this 
Law. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 58 
5. The Ministry and the violator may agree to settle the violation by means of paying the fine 
assessed by the Ministry, provided that a decision to this effect is issued by the Minister". 
 Renumbering Article 240 to be 231 and amending it to read as follows: 
"Article 231 
The violator is required to rectify the violation within a period specified by the Regulations. 
Otherwise, it shall be considered a new violation". 
 Renumbering Article 242 to be 232 and amending it to read as follows: 
"Article 232 
Fines prescribed under this Law shall be collected in accordance with the procedures for 
collecting public funds. Collected amounts shall be deposited with the Human Resources 
Development Fund". 
 Adding a new article to be numbered 233 to read as follows: 
"Article 233 
The Minister may  grant a financial reward of not more than 25% of the amount of the fine 
collected to inspectors and others who help in uncovering any of the violations of the provisions 
of this Law, its Regulations, and the decisions issued in implementation thereof". 
 Amending Article 98 to read as follows: 
"A worker may not actually work for more than nine hours a day if the employer uses the daily 
work criterion, or more than forty-five hours a week if he uses the weekly criterion. During the 
month of Ramadan, the actual working hours for Muslims shall be reduced to a maximum of 
seven hours a day or thirty-five hours a week". 
 Amending Article 99 to read as follows: 
"The number of working hours provided for in Article 98 of this Law may be raised to ten hours 
a day for certain categories of workers or in certain industries and jobs where the worker does 
not work continuously. It may likewise be reduced to eight hours a day for certain categories 
of workers or in certain h azardous or harmful industries or jobs. Categories of workers, 
industries and jobs referred to shall be determined pursuant to a decision by the Minister". 
 Amending Article 100 to read as follows: 
"In exception to Articles 98 and 101  of this Law, the emplo yer may, with the Ministry’s 
approval, increase the number of working hours to more than nine hours a day or forty -five 
hours a week, provided that the average working hours when calculated over a period of three 
weeks or less is not more than nine hours a  day or forty-five hours a week, in establishments 
where work is done in shifts". 
 Amending Article 104 to read as follows: 
"1. A worker shall be entitled to two rest days a week with full pay, one of which shall be a 
Friday. 
2. An employer may, upon notifying the relevant labor office, substitute Friday for some of his 
workers with any other day of the week. The employer shall allow workers to observe their 
religious duties". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 59 
October 31, 2018 (Safar 22, 1440H) 
Royal Decree No. M/14 provides for the following: 
 Adding two articles as follows: 
"Article 234  
A. Labor courts may not hear any claim arising from this Law or from an employment contract 
upon the lapse of 12 months from the date of termination of the employment relation unless 
the claimant provides justification acceptable to the court or the defendant admits the right 
subject of the claim. 
B. Labor suits shall be expeditiously heard. 
Article 235 
An employer may not, during the hearing of a suit before a labor court, alter employment 
conditions existing prior to the initiation of proceedings in a manner that undermines the interest 
of the worker in the suit".  
July 30, 2019 (Thul-Qi'dah 27, 1440H) 
Royal Decree No. M/134 provides for the following: 
 Amending the definition of "Worker" mentioned in Article 2 t read as follows: 
"Any natural person - male or female - working for an employer and under his management or 
supervision for a wage, even if said person is not under his direct control". 
 Amending Article 3 to read as follows: 
"Work is the right of every citizen. No one else may exercise such right unless the conditions 
provided for in this Law are fulfilled. All citizens are equal in the right to work without 
discrimination on the basis of gender, disability, age, or any other form of discrimina tion, 
whether during their performance of work, at the time of employment, or at the time of 
advertising". 
 Amending paragraph (4) of Article 74 to read as follows: 
"When the worker reaches the age of retirement in accordance with the provisions of the Social 
Insurance Law unless the parties agree on continuing work after this age". 
 Amending Article 155 to read as follows: 
"An employer may not terminate the employment of a female worker or give her a warning of 
the same during her pregnancy or while she is on maternity leave. This shall include the period 
she is ill as a result of either of them, provided that her illness is documented pursuant to an 
official medical report, and that her absence does not exceed 180 days a year whether separately 
or consecutively". 
 Repealing Article 156. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 60 
August 26, 2020 (Muharram 7, 1442H) 
Royal Decree No. M/5 provides for the following: 
 Deleting Articles 149 and 150. 
 Adding a new article to be numbered 131 bis to read as follows: 
"The Minister shall, pursuant to a decision issued thereby, determine the professions and jobs 
that are deemed dangerous or hazardous and are likely to expose the worker to extraordinary 
risk or harm, and shall determine categories of workers that are perm anently or temporary 
banned from occupying said professions and jobs, or the conditions for occupying said 
professions and jobs, including the need to set working hours for such categories, in accordance 
with international agreements to which the Kingdom is a party".  
 Amending Article 186 to read as follows: 
"No person under the age of 18 may be employed in a mine or quarry". 
August 12, 2024 (Safar 8, 1446H) 
Royal Decree No. M/44 provides for the following: 
 Adding two definitions to Article 2 to read as follows: 
"Assignment: The service of providing a worker to work for a person other than the employer 
through an establishment licensed for such purpose. 
Resignation: The worker’s written expression of his desire, without coercion, to terminate a 
fixed-term employment contract without any conditions or restrictions, and the acceptance 
thereof by the employer". 
 Amending Article 7 to read as follows: 
"1. The following shall be exempted from the implementation of the provisions of this Law: 
a) The employer's family members, namely, the spouse and the ascendants and descendants 
who constitute the only workers of the establishment. 
b) Players and coaches of sports clubs and federations. 
c) Domestic workers and the like. 
d) Agricultural workers, private herdsmen, and the like. 
e) Non-Saudi workers entering the Kingdom to perform a specific task for a period not 
exceeding two months. 
2. The Minister shall issue, in coordination with relevant agencies, one or more regulations for 
the categories set out in subparagraphs (a), (c), (d), and (e) of paragraph (1) of this Article, 
containing the rights, obligations, and other special provisions related to each category. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (1) of this Article, the penalties stipulated in 
Article 229 of this Law shall apply to any violation of the provisions of such regulations". 
3. The regulations issued regarding the two categories mentioned in subparagraphs (c) and (d) 
of paragraph (1) of this Article shall include the procedures and mechanisms for improving 
labor market performance for said categories, regulating their mobility, and specifying the 
responsibilities and duties of employers as well as offices and companies that act as an 
intermediary for contracting with workers of said categories". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 61 
 Amending the title of Chapter 1 of Part 2 to be "Employment Channels" and replacing the 
words “unit” and “units” with the word "channels" wherever mentioned in Articles 23, 24, 25, 
27, and 28. 
 Amending the beginning of Article 22 to read as follows: "The  Ministry shall provide 
employment channels, free of charge. Such channels shall undertake the following:".  
 Amending paragraph ( 3.3) of Article 22 to read as follows: "Matching applications of job 
seekers with suitable job offers based on their qualifications". 
 Replacing the phrase "competent labor office" mentioned in Articles 25 and 28 with the word 
"Ministry".  
 Amending the title of Chapter 2 of Part 2 to be "Employing People with Disabilities", replacing 
the phrase "disabled persons" with the phrase "p ersons with disabilities", and replacing the 
phrase "occupied by professionally qualified disabled persons" with the phrase "occupied by 
professionally qualified people with disabilities" mentioned in Article 28. 
 Amending Article 30 to read as follows:  
"1. A natural or corporate person may not engage in the recruitment of Saudis or in the 
recruitment of workers from abroad or engage in the assignment of workers unless licensed 
by the Ministry. 
The Regulations shall specify the controls for engaging in such  activities, the conditions for 
granting and renewing a license to each of them, and the obligations of the licensee as well as 
rules for non -renewal or revocation of the license and the consequences thereof, and other 
conditions and controls necessary for ensuring the proper conduct of business. 
2. The Ministry shall propose the fees for engaging in the activities referred to in paragraph (1) 
of this Article and the channels for disbursing the collected fees, in preparation for 
completing the relevant statutory procedures". 
 Amending the title of Chapter 3 of Part 2 to be "Private Offices and Companies for the 
Recruitment of Citizens and Private Offices and Companies for Recruiting from Abroad", and 
amending Article 31 by adding the phrase "or companies"  after the word "offices" mentioned 
therein. 
 Amending Article 35 to read as follows: 
"The Ministry may, at its discretion, decline to renew the work permit if the employer violates 
the Saudization requirements set by the Ministry and any other requirements  or conditions 
provided for in the Regulations. The Regulations shall specify the measures which ensure that 
the worker is not affected by the non -renewal of the work permit, including the option of 
transferring the employment of the worker to another empl oyer without the consent of the 
violating employer". 
 Amending Article 37 to read as follows: 
"The employment contract for non -Saudis shall be written and of a fixed term. If the term of 
the contract is not specified, the contract shall be valid for one year commencing from the date 
the worker starts employment. If the worker continues to work beyond such term, the contract 
shall be deemed renewed for a similar period". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 62 
 Amending Article 39 to be a single paragraph and to read as follows: 
"It shall be prohibited for an employer to allow his worker to work for others without adhering 
to the applicable legal rules and procedures or to allow him to work for his own benefit; for a 
worker to work for another employer or for his own benefit; or for an employer to em ploy 
workers of other employers. The Ministry shall inspect establishments, detect and record 
violations of this Law, take the necessary measures to impose the penalties prescribed by this 
Law, and refer to the Ministry of Interior the violations that fall within its jurisdiction to take 
the necessary actions in accordance with the applicable provisions. If the Ministry of Interior 
detects and records violations falling within its jurisdiction, it shall refer the information of 
employers who are in violation of this Article to the Ministry of Human Resources and Social 
Development to impose the penalties prescribed under this Law". 
 Amending paragraph (1) of Article 40 to read as follows: 
"An employer shall bear the fees pertaining to the recruitment of non-Saudi workers; the fees 
for issuing and renewing residence permit ( Iqama) and work permit, and the fines resulting 
from the delay of issuance or renewal thereof if such delay is caused by the employer; the fees 
pertaining to change of profession; th e fees of exit and re -entry visas; and the cost of the 
worker’s return ticket to his home country upon the termination of the employment relation 
between the two parties". 
 Amending Article 42 to read as follows: 
"Each employer shall set a policy to train a nd qualify Saudi workers employed by him for the 
purpose of developing their skills and enhancing their technical, administrative, vocational, and 
other skills. The Regulations shall specify the relevant provisions". 
 Amending Article 43 to read as follows: 
"Without prejudice to any rules or conditions relating to training, qualification, and skill 
development provided for in franchise agreements and other agreements, each employer shall 
qualify or train a percentage of Saudi workers as determined by the Min ister’s decision. The 
number of Saudi workers who are pursuing their studies and whose tuition fees are being paid 
by the employer shall be included in such percentage. The Regulations shall specify the relevant 
criteria and provisions". 
  Amending Article 44 to read as follows: 
"The training program shall include the target skill for the worker and the rules and conditions 
to be followed in training, its duration, number of hours, theoretical and practical training 
programs, testing method, and the certificates to be granted in this regard. The Regulations shall 
set forth the general criteria and rules to be followed in this regard to raise the worker’s level 
of performance in terms of skill and productivity". 
 Amending Article 46 to read as follows: 
"A training or qualification contract shall be in writing, indicating the profession for which the 
training is provided, the duration and stages of training, the skill to be acquired, and the 
allowance to be paid to the trainee at each stage, provided that it is not based on piecemeal or 
productivity. The contract shall state the rights and duties of the trainee and the employer and 
whether the training or qualification is carried out on the premises of an establishment affiliated 
with the employer or at another establishment". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 63 
 Amending Article 47 to read as follows: 
"The Minister may require establishments to accept a certain number or percentage of the 
students and graduates of universities, colleges, institutes, and centers to receive training and 
supplementary practical experience in accordance with the conditions, circumstances, and 
durations specified by the Regulations, provided that a training contract is concluded between 
the trainee and the employer subject to the provisions provided for in this Chapter. The 
establishment may provide an allowance to the trainee". 
 Amending paragraph (1) of Article 48 to read as follows: 
"The employer may terminate the training or qualification contract if it is established that the 
person enrolled in a training or qualification program is incapable of completing such program 
based on periodical evaluation reports prepared by the establishment providing the training or 
qualification program. The person enrolled in a training or qualification program shall be 
entitled to terminate the contract. The party seeking to terminate the contract shall notify the 
other party of his desire at least one week prior to the date set for termination. Neither party 
shall have the right to demand compensation from the other party, unless the contract provides 
otherwise". 
 Amending Article 51 to read as follows: 
"The employment contract shall be executed in duplicate, one copy to be retained by each of 
the two parties. It shall be certified in accordance with relevant statutory provisions and in line 
with the Regulations. However, a contract shall be deemed to exist even if not written. In this 
case the worker alone may establish the contract and his entitlements arising therefrom by all 
methods of proof. Either party may at any time demand that the contract be in writing. As for 
workers of the government and public corporations, the appointment decision or order issued 
by the competent authority shall serve as the contract". 
 Amending paragraph (1) of Article 52 to read as follows: 
"Subject to the provisions of Article 37 of this Law, the Ministry shall create a model for each 
type of employment contract, which shall primarily include the name and place of the employer; 
the name and nationality of the worker; proof of identity; place of residence; agreed upon wage, 
including benefits and allowances; type and location of work; date of employment; term of the 
contract if fixed; and the rights and basic obligations of each party". 
 Amending Article 53 to read as follows: 
"If the worker is subject to a probation period, the employment contract shall expressly provide 
for such period, provided that such period does not exceed in total and in all cases 180 days. 
The Regulations shall provide the relevant provisions, including provisions relating  to leaves 
that are not included in calculating said period. Each party shall have the right to terminate the 
contract within such period". 
 Amending Article 61 by adding the following paragraphs: 
"4. Refrain from acts that would undermine equal opportunity or fair treatment in the 
workplace, whether by exclusion, favoritism, or discrimination between job applicants or 
employees on the basis of race, color, gender, age, disability, marital status, o r any other 
form of discrimination. 
5. Provide appropriate housing for his workers, or pay adequate cash allowance in lieu of 
housing to be included in their wage. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 64 
6. Provide appropriate transportation for workers to commute between their place of residence 
and their workplace, or pay adequate cash allowance in lieu of transportation to be included 
in their wage". 
 Amending Article 72 to read as follows: 
"The worker shall be notified in writing of the penalty decision imposed against him. If the 
worker refuses to acknowledge receipt of such notice or if he is absent, the notice shall be sent 
by registered mail to the address on his file. The worker may file an objection with the 
employer’s relevant department against the penalty decision within 30 days from t he date of 
notification thereof, excluding official holidays. If the objection is rejected or if a decision is 
not rendered thereon within 15 days from the date of filing, the employee shall have the right 
to file an appeal against such decision with the labor court within 30 days, excluding official 
holidays, from the date of rejecting his objection or from the date on which the period for 
issuing a decision thereon lapses, whichever is earlier". 
 Adding two paragraphs to Article 74 to read as follows: 
"3 bis. Resignation". 
"7 bis. Issuance of a decision or a final judgement by the competent court to terminate the 
worker's contract due to the initiation of any bankruptcy proceeding in accordance with the 
Bankruptcy Law". 
 Amending Article 75 to read as follows: 
"1. If the contract is for an indefinite term and the wage is paid monthly, either party may 
terminate it for a valid reason, as follows: 
a) If the termination is by the employee, he must give the employer a written notice a t least 
30 days prior to the date of termination. 
b) If termination is by the employer, he must send a written notice of the same to the worker 
at least 60 days prior to the date of termination. 
2. If the contract is of an indefinite term and the wage is not paid monthly, the party who 
terminates the contract for valid reason, whether the worker or the employer, must give the 
other party a written notice at least 30 days from the date of termination". 
 Adding an article to be numbered 79 bis to read as follows: 
"1. The resignation submitted shall be deemed accepted if the employer fails to respond to the 
resignation within 30 days from the date of submission. The employer may defer the 
acceptance of the resignation for a period not exceeding 60 days if work interest so requires, 
provided that the deferral of the acceptance is made prior to the lapse of the aforementioned 
30-day period and the worker is provided with a written clarification for such d eferral. The 
deferral period shall commence from the date the worker receives said clarification. 
2. Termination of the employment contract by resignation shall become effective as of the date 
the employer accepts it, after the lapse of the 30 -day period referred to in paragraph (1) of 
this Article without a response from the employer, or after the lapse of the deferral period of 
the acceptance of the resignation referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article. 
3. The worker may withdraw his resignation within a period not exceeding seven days from the 
date of its submission, unless it is accepted by the employer prior to the withdrawal. 
4. A resignation may not be tendered with a deferred date. 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 65 
5. The employment contract shall be deemed valid during the period  of tendering the 
resignation and the parties to the contract shall be bound to fulfill all the obligations arising 
therefrom during said period. 
6. The worker whose contract is terminated by resignation shall be entitled to all rights provided 
for in this Law". 
 Amending paragraph (1) of Article 107 to read as follows: 
"The employer shall pay the worker for each overtime hour the hourly rate of his basic wage 
plus 50% thereof. The employer may, subject to the consent of the worker, grant such worker 
additional paid leave days in lieu of paying for overtime hours. The Regulations shall specify 
the relevant provisions". 
 Amending Article 113 to read as follows: 
"Taking into account female workers’ leaves as provided for under this Law, a worker shall be 
entitled to a fully paid five-day leave in the event of the worker’s marriage or the death of the 
worker’s spouse, ascendant, or descendant from the date such events occur; a fully paid three-
day leave in the event of the death of the worker’s brother or sister from the date such event 
occurs; and a fully paid three-day leave in the event of childbirth to be taken within seven days 
from the date of the childbirth. In all cases, the employer shall have the right to request 
documents proving such events". 
 Amending Article 151 to read as follows: 
"1. A female worker shall be entitled to a fully paid 12 -week maternity leave, six weeks of 
which must be taken immediately after delivery. The remaining six weeks may be taken at 
the worker’s discretion starting four weeks prior to the due date as determined by a medical 
report certified by a health institution. If the remainder of the leave is less than six weeks 
due to delivery past the due date, the period completing the six-week leave shall be unpaid. 
In all cases, the maternity leave may be extended for one month without pay. 
2. In the event of giving birth to a sick child or a child with a disability whose health condition 
requires constant attendance, a female worker shall be entitled to a one -month leave with 
full pay starting at the end of the maternity leave and she shall be entitled to extend the leave 
for an additional month as unpaid leave". 
 Amending Article 168 to read as follows: 
"The words and phrases (vessel, vessel chandler, captain, seafarer, and marine employment 
contract) wherever mentioned in this Part shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the 
Commercial Maritime Law". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 66 
 Amending Article 178 to read as follows: 
"Without prejudice to the provisions relating to maritime employment contracts p rovided for 
in this Law, regulations governing maritime employment contracts shall be issued pursuant to 
a decision by the Minister in coordination with the Transport General Authority. Such 
regulations shall include provisions relating to the rights and o bligations of the parties to the 
contract; living conditions, safety, food, sleeping quarters, and entertainment on board the 
vessel; measures to be taken by the employer to prevent occupational injuries and diseases; 
health care; working and resting hours  and vacations; training seafarer and developing their 
skills; repatriation of seamen to their home countries; issuing a certificate indicating the vessel’s 
compliance with the provisions of this Law; the mechanism for inspecting and monitoring the 
vessel’s compliance with this Law; violations and their prescribed penalties; and amicable 
settlement of complaints". 
 Amending Article 182 to read as follows: 
"An employer may terminate the contract without prior notice and without compensation if the 
voyage is cancelled prior to its outset, for reasons beyond the chandler’s control and the wage 
is on the basis of a single voyage, unless the contract provides otherwise". 
 Amending Article 196 to read as follows: 
"Work inspectors shall undertake the following: 
1. Monitoring implementation of the provisions of this Law, its Implementing Regulations, and 
the decisions issued in implementation thereof. 
2. Providing employers and workers with technical information and instructions that enable 
them to follow the best methods for implementing the provisions of this Law. 
3. Notifying the concerned officials at the Ministry of the shortcomings of existing provisions, 
and submitting relevant proposals. 
4. Reporting violations of the provisions of this Law, its Regulations, and the decisions issued 
in implementation thereof. 
5. Investigating violations which have been detected by other competent government agencies 
and referred to the Ministry. 
6. Proposing appropriate fines in accordance with the Violations and Penalties Table". 
 Amending paragraph (1) of Article 198 to read as follows:  
"Access any establishment that is subject to the provisions of the Labor Law at any time during 
the working hours of the establishment without prior notice". 
 Amending Article 199 by adding the phrase "and officers at the workplace" after the word "their 
agents" provided for in the Article. 
 Amending Article 209 to read as follows: 
"The Minister shall issue the Implementing Regulations necessary for governing and regulating 
inspection activities ". 
 Adding an article to be numbered 229 bis to read as follows: 
"Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 229 of this Law, any person who violates the 
provisions of Article 30(1) of this Law shall be subject to a fine not le ss than two hundred 
thousand riyals (SAR 200,000) and not more than five hundred thousand riyals (SAR 
500,000)". 
 
 
Labor Law 
 
 
 67 
 Amending paragraph (5) of Article 230 by adding the phrase "or his designee" after the word 
"Minister". 
 Repealing Articles 195, 197, 203, 205, 206, 207, and 208. 